'For centuries, the northern region of''Chapada Diamantina''had been known as Brazil’s largest gold and diamond extraction spot. Today, it’s one of the most beautiful tourist destinations in the country. Few travelers visit this national park, but you gotta trust me: it’s worth it! People should stop thinking that Brazil means only''Rio de Janeiro'', beaches, caipirinha and soccer. Here you’ll find some of the most spectacular mountain trails in South America, and in the world!''Whether it’s a one-hour trip to beautiful waterfalls or a seven-day hike through endless valleys,''Chapada Diamantina National Park''offers hundreds of options for visitors of all kinds. After a hard day of hiking, you can enjoy a beautiful sunset over the river, try a delicious local dish and have a handmade cachaça. On your last day, you’ll wish you had more time to spend there!''BEST HIKING TRAILS AND PLACES TO VISIT IN CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''It’s important to point out that there are hundreds of incredible places to visit in Chapada Diamantina. You’ll find valleys, canyons, waterfalls, rivers, caves, cliffs, villages, museums, churches and much more. I will compile the places and routes that I find most interesting. Then you can decide what to visit depending on your preferences and time.''First, I’ll talk about the easiest and most popular options. You can easily visit a bunch of places on your own (or on a tour). You can also combine several visits into one day.''Then, we’ll talk about some multi-day routes. If you have time, you shouldn’t miss the hike to Vale do Pati (3-5 days). I think it’s by far the best hiking trail in Chapada Diamantina!''IMPORTANT:''Some routes require a guide, while others are easy to complete on your own. I did almost all the routes with a GPS and without a guide. However, each person is responsible for his or her own safety. If you aren’t an experienced hiker or don’t know the area, I recommend that you hire a professional guide.''TREKKING ROUTES AND DAY TOURS''CACHOEIRA DA FUMAÇA''A must-visit waterfall in the park, Cachoeira da Fumaça will put your vertigo to the test. The viewpoint is located at 420 meters high, right next to the impressive cliff. Without doubt, it’s one of the most beautiful spots in the Chapada.''The route can be completed in about two hours. The first part is quite steep and rugged, as well as exposed to the sun. Afterwards, you’ll get to a kind of plain savanna with short vegetation. Although most people hike up there accompanied by a guide, it’s quite easy to complete the route on your own. The trail starts from Os Campos, in Vale do Capão.''SUNSET AT MORRO DO PAI INACIO''This is the most famous postcard of Chapada, and certainly a place you can’t miss. Although several trails lead to Morro do Pai Inacio, most people get there by private vehicle. The place seems to be totally in the wild, but in reality it’s next to the main road. You can leave your car in the parking lot (or go on a tour that leaves you there) and hike up the 30-minute trail to the top of the plateau. The place is located halfway between Lençois and Capão.''Sunset is the most popular moment of the day, when the rocky walls turn orange, creating unforgettable scenery.''POÇO DO DIABO + GRUTA AZUL + GRUTA DA PRATINHA''Poço do Diabo is a small lagoon with a cool waterfall. The “grutas” are little caves flooded by crystalline waters. The three places are located close to each other, making it easy to visit them on the same day. After visiting these spots, you can hike to Morro do Pai Inacio to enjoy the sunset I just talked about. Almost all agencies in Lençois and Vale do Capão offer this tour. (It’s called Roteiro 1.)''Let me tell you that while Morro do Pai Inacio is really worth it, Poço do Diabo and the caves… well, they are beautiful, but there are better places to visit in Chapada. Also, you’ll find lots of tourists and you’ll have to pay an entrance fee for the caves, as they are located on private property.''CACHOEIRA DO SOSSEGO''If you are thinking about taking a multi-day hike, the Cachoeira do Sossego might be good physical training. In addition, you will be rewarded with a beautiful 15-meter waterfall right in the middle of a spectacular canyon. From Lençois, it takes about two or three hours to get to Sossego, depending on the rhythm. We did it without a guide (but with GPS) and I think the trail isn’t too hard. Anyway, keep in mind that at some parts near the river, it’s easy to lose track.''On the way back, you can take the road that goes through Riberão do Meio. This place, just 3 km from Lençois, is very popular among families and groups of friends, as the river rock forms a kind of natural slide. It’s the closest thing to a wild water park!''The way back from Riberão do Meio to Lençois is easy and well-marked.''CACHOEIRA DA PRIMAVERA''Probably the most accessible waterfall in the national park, the Cachoeira da Primavera is a good option if you want to relax. The trek can be completed in 40 minutes leaving from Lençois, and although it’s not the most spectacular waterfall in the park, it certainly has a special charm. The best thing about this trail is that it passes through other interesting spots, such as the Cachoeira do Serrano, another beautiful waterfall, and the Salão de Areias, a group of caves in which you’ll find colorful sand.''CACHOEIRA DOS MOSQUITOS''Cachoeira dos Mosquitos is a great option for those who want to visit a beautiful waterfall without the hassle of walking a long distance. After leaving the car in the parking lot, you’ll have to walk only 15 minutes to enjoy this beauty of nature.''Cachoeira dos Mosquitos. Credit:''Rosanetur''POÇO AZUL AND POÇO ENCANTADO''Poço Azul is another classic image of the Chapada. This beautiful cave boasts crystal clear waters in which you can take a swim. The best time to visit the cave is between February and October around 2:00 pm, when the waters are so clear, bathers seem to be floating in the air.''The Poço Encantado has similar characteristics, with the difference that bathing is not allowed. You must pay an entrance fee to visit both spots. If you have to decide between them, you’d better visit Poço Azul.''Poço Azul. Credit:''Bart Von Dorp''CACHOEIRA DO BURACÃO + CACHOEIRA DA FUMAÇINHA''These little-visited waterfalls are two of the most impressive spots in the whole park. The problem is that most tours tend to be quite expensive and getting there by public transport is complicated. They are located near Ibicoara, which is a bit far from Lençois. However, if you decide to complete these two routes, you won’t regret it!''The route to Fumaçinha is somewhat more challenging, but the one to Buracão is relatively easy. (It’s mandatory to go with a guide, as there are parts where you have to swim, etc.). You can do both hikes on the same day, although most people prefer to take one of the two and do it leisurely. Both routes offer beautiful trails surrounded by huge cliffs, spectacular canyons and impressive waterfalls.''Cachoeira da Fumaçinha. Credit:''Bart Von Dorp''MULTI-DAY TRAILS – BEST TREKS IN CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''All the previously mentioned places have a special charm. However, the best way to enjoy Chapada Diamantina is by venturing on a multi-day route. You’ll walk through the jungle, visit the houses of the natives, camp next to a river and enjoy a starry sky like none you’ve seen before.''VALE DO PATI''Known as the best hiking trail in Brazil (and, in my humble opinion, one of the best trails in the world), Vale do Pati is the highlight of the park. I think it’s on par with top-class routes like''Mount Roraima in Venezuela'',''Las Torres del Paine in Chile''and even the''Annapurna Base Camp in Nepal''.''Although a minimum of three days is recommended for exploring the best of the valley, I’d say that four or five days is more convenient. If you do it on your own, you can start from Capão, hiking up through Quebra Bunda and Mirante do Pati before getting down to Igrejinha, one of the gateways of the valley. Once in Pati, you’ll find several houses in which the natives will offer you accommodation and food.''Organized groups usually get to Guiné by car, considerably shortening the trip to the valley. In any event, don’t worry too much because I’ve written this detailed article in which I’ll explain, step by step, how to complete this amazing route. We did it without a guide and, yes, it’s possible.''The most beautiful spots on the route are''Mirante do Pati'',''Morro do Castelo'',''Cachoeirão por baixo''and''Cachoeirão por cima''. I’d like to insist: If you have time, do not miss it because it’s out of this world! The best trail in Chapada Diamantina!''ROUTE OF THE CACHOEIRA 21''This route is little visited because it’s pretty off-the-beaten-track. The guide is not mandatory, but the route goes through wild forests and little-marked trails where it’s easy to get lost. On many occasions, you’ll need to cross rivers at places that have no signs. It’s a wild adventure, without accommodations or amenities. Therefore, it’s important that you hire a good guide and carry a tent, a sleeping bag and food.''There are several options (typically between two and four days), and the route goes through Serra do Veneno, Cachoeira Palmital, Mirante da Fumaça and Cachoeira 21. The best thing about this trail is that you’ll be able to watch the famous Cachoeira da Fumaça from the other side of the valley, getting one of the most impressive views of the waterfall.''MY FAVOURITE PLACES – BEST HIKES IN CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''With so many great options, deciding where to go can be hard. When I first arrived in Chapada Diamantina and searched online, I had no idea what I wanted to do.''Therefore, I will cut to the chase.''You shouldn’t miss (by any means):''1 – MORRO DO PAI INACIO''2 – CACHOEIRA DA FUMAÇA''3 – VALE DO PATI''If you get to all (or a few) of these places, I assure you that you’ll leave Chapada Diamantina with a feeling of absolute happiness.''HOW TO GET TO CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''BY PLANE''There are regular flights to Lençóis leaving from''Salvador'', São Paulo and Belo Horizonte. Unfortunately, they are usually quite expensive, making this option unpopular among travelers.''BY BUS''Most visitors choose to take a bus from''Salvador to Lençois''. The trip lasts seven hours, but there is a night bus that is pretty comfortable. If you are traveling to Vale do Capão, you must continue for another hour until you reach Palmeiras. Once in the Palmeiras terminal, you’ll see some vans parked outside that will take you to Vale do Capão.''HOW TO MOVE WITHIN CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''BUS''The connections between main towns within the park are very limited or nonexistent. Most places of tourist interest can’t be visited by bus.''TOURS''You can visit virtually every corner of the Chapada by going on a private tour. The problem is that if you get out of the classic circuits, there likely won’t be enough people to make a group and you’ll be asked for a lot of money. Popular circuits are not especially cheap, either.''BY CAR''One of the best options for exploring the park is by hiring a car. You’ll be able to visit the places of your choice at your own pace. In Lençois, you’ll find several car rental places.''HITCHHIKING''Hitchhiking works very well in Chapada Diamantina. Among the local people, it’s very common to travel around, so they are used to it. With a little patience, you’ll be able to reach many destinations by simply lifting your finger.''WHERE TO STAY? LENÇOIS OR VALE DO CAPÃO?''The eternal question: Lençois or Capão?''I’m going to give you my humble opinion about the two places, so you can decide where you would fit better.''Lençois is a charming little town with cobbled streets, colorful houses, and many restaurants and cafes. There is also a museum to visit and music shows from time to time. It has more agencies, inns and hostels, and it’s generally cheaper than Capão. The visitor in Lençois is usually middle or upper-middle class.''Regardless of the type of tourism, more routes and waterfalls are near Lençois: Primavera, Sossego, Pai Inacio + caves, Mosquitos.''Colonial street in Lençois''As its name suggests, Vale do Capão is a valley. The small town in the middle of the valley is formed by literally three streets, where you’ll find a supermarket, a couple of bakeries, a restaurant and little else. Capão has a hippie atmosphere – kind of new age, yoga, meditation style. I loved that atmosphere, which was very quiet with lots of friendly people. However, don’t be fooled by the “hipness” in relation to the prices. Although it’s possible to find cheap accommodations, the place is becoming quite expensive. Many inns and services are much more expensive than in Lençois.''Although Capão is very quiet, there are music shows and festivals from time to time, as well as dance and meditation courses, etc. Despite the high prices, I recommend that you visit Capão and its friendly inhabitants. Also, even though many routes start from Lençois, two of the best trails start from Capão: Fumaça and Vale do Pati.''Summary:''Lençois offers more services and accommodation options at a good price. Capão has a friendly, hippy style but expensive accommodations. (While there are some economical options, they are usually inside the valley, so you’ll need a car to get around.)''WHEN TO ENJOY THE BEST TREKS IN CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''Although you can visit Chapada Diamantina all year round, you should take the rainfall into account.''The rainy season goes from November to January'', when the paths get muddy, but the waterfalls look at their best.''From March to June''the landscapes get green and the waterfalls still look mighty. This would be one of the best times to visit the park.''From June to October''there likely won’t be any rain. At that time, you’ll have clear skies and dry paths, but the longer you wait, the drier the waterfalls will be.''CAN I GO WITHOUT A GUIDE?''Whether you’ll need a guide depends on the route you want to take. For some routes a guide is mandatory, even if you have GPS and a lot of hiking experience. Lately, several changes have taken place in the park legislation, so you should get the proper information at the park offices.''You can complete many trails on your own. We did most routes, including Vale do Pati, without a guide. It’s crucial that you have hiking experience and''a good GPS''or an''app like Wikiloc''. Don’t trust the''maps''sold in Lençois, because they are not detailed. They are pretty bad, to be honest.''Remember that several people get lost every year and many have been injured and or even died. The local guides must look for those who get lost, and this situation pisses them off quite a bit. You’ll notice that most guides won’t be very nice to you if they see you hiking on your own.''PREPARE YOUR TRIP''WHERE TO STAY''Most accommodations cost around 15-25 reais per night for a dorm room. If you are looking for a double room in a lodge or “pousada,” the prices increase to around 40-80 reais in Lençois, and 100-140 reais in Capão.''Here are some of the hostels I liked the most:''Lençois:''Albergue de Lençois Backpackers:''Economic dorms for independent travelers.''Pousada Natureza:''Nice private rooms and super friendly owners.''Capão:''Pousada Pé no Mato:''Great location and cool rooms.''TIPS FOR TREKKING CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''BANKS''The following locations have an ATM: Lençois, Mucugê, Palmeira, Ibicoara. If you are going to stay in Capão, remember that there are no banks or ATMs.''HIKING GEAR''Think about the type of hike you are going to complete because you may need a''tent'', a''sleeping bag'', a''camera'',''trekking pants'', etc. If you will be hiking on your own, bring a good''GPS''.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I recommend that you get good travel insurance before visiting Chapada Diamantina. If you are looking for professional insurance at a great price,''World Nomads''offers one of the best coverages on the market.''Did you enjoy The Best Hikes in Chapada Diamantina -What to Do and See? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Santa Cruz trek: Hiking the Cordillera blanca in P...''How to Hike Mount Roraima on a Budget''Markha Valley Trek on a budget. Learn how to do it...''Best route for hiking the Quilotoa loop and Saquis...''If you liked this, please share it:''Salvador de Bahia, the first capital of the Portuguese Empire and currently the third most populated city in Brazil, is an enclave of unquestionable beauty.''Did you know that the state of Bahia has the largest black population in the world outside Africa? It was one of the largest slave ports on the new continent, and you can feel that presence on every corner.''If you’ve been to Portugal, you’ll also notice the city’s great resemblance to Lisbon in its architecture and steep slopes. The European style is mixed with a distinct African influence, mysticism and tropical flavor. Salvador is a must-visit on any trip through the Brazilian Northeast, offering dream beaches, colonial streets, beautiful churches, and nights of dance, percussion and fantasy.''If you are traveling to Morro de São Paulo, Chapada Diamantina or Itacaré, I recommend that you take a few extra days to explore this beautiful city because… you know what? You won’t want to leave!''TOP 10 BEST THINGS TO DO IN SALVADOR DE BAHIA''1 – STROLL ALONG THE STREETS OF PELOURINHO''Declared a''World Heritage Site by UNESCO'', the famous district of Pelourinho (or Pelô, as they call it) is one of the best preserved colonial settlements in all South America. Its cobbled streets and colorful houses will impress you as you step into this place full of tradition and history.''Don’t miss a walk around Terreiro de Jesus and Largo do Pelourinho, where you’ll find Jorge Amado’s museum, “Fundação Jorge Amado”.''2 – ENJOY A NIGHT OF PERCUSSION AND DANCE''Every Tuesday, Olodum (or similar bands) takes over the streets of Pelô to dance and parade to the rhythm of the drums. The music begins at around 7:00 pm in front of the Jorge Amado Museum. Then, the musicians walk through the streets of Pelô performing a unique Afro-Brazilian show.''This spectacle usually gets crowded with tourists, and pickpockets take the opportunity to get up to their old tricks. Be aware of your belongings, and take only a few bucks to get some drinks.''Olodum in Pelourinho. Photo credit:''Roberto Viana/AGECOM''3 – TRY ACARAJÉ AND AÇAI''Bahian food, with a strong African taste, is one of the most representative cuisines in the country. Acarajé is a kind of bun made with beans, fried in palm oil, and accompanied by shrimp and a rather spicy sauce.''Açai (just thinking about it, I’d like to have one) is a kind of ice cream made from the açai fruit and served with granola and banana. It’s hard to describe, but it’s delicious. You should try one!''Delicious Açai''4 – TAKE THE ELEVADOR LACERDA AND VISIT MERCADO MODELO''The Elevador Lacerda is the most representative Art Decó icon in the city and another emblematic place you can’t miss. Built in 1873 to connect the low neighborhood with the high neighborhood, it was the first urban elevator in the world.''The ride costs only a few cents and leaves you in front of Mercado Modelo. Formerly, this market was a very important center of supply in the lower part of the city. Today, it’s a place to buy souvenirs. I recommend that you pay a visit, more for its history and architecture than for all the trinkets sold inside.''5 – LEARN CAPOEIRA''Capoeira, an amazing martial art that the slaves started to practice as a form of training, has its origin in Bahia. You will find capoeira shows in several parts of the city, especially Terreiro de Jesus.''If you want to learn capoeira, I recommend that you contact one of the many schools found all over the city. For that, you will need to remain in Salvador for a few weeks, as most schools charge by the month.''If you simply want to learn some basic steps, talk to the capoeira guys in Terreiro de Jesus. They are used to working with tourists, and can teach you the basics. Ask for “Negro Drama.” He is a cool guy and a good capoerista.''6 – VISIT SAN FRANCISCO CHURCH''The Church and Convent of San Francisco is one of the most imposing temples in the country. Its ornate baroque interior is covered in gold, while the convent’s court is decorated with tiles brought directly from Portugal. Its big façade, along with a huge cross decorating the access square, create one of the most classic images of the Pelourinho.''7 – ASK FOR A WISH IN NOSSA SENHORA DO BONFIM''Built in a neoclassical style, with a rococo facade, the Church of Nossa Senhora do Bonfim is a preferred place for the most superstitious Christians. There, you can tie ribbons and ask for wishes.''When you get a ribbon, tie it to one of the bars in the entrance and make three knots to fix it. Every time you create a knot, make a wish. Whether the wishes are fulfilled is difficult to say, but hey, you don’t lose anything by trying.''8 – ATTEND A CANDOMBLÉ MASS''Candomblé is a religion that mixes African beliefs, indigenous rites and Catholicism. It’s based in the worship of the orixás, associated with different natural elements (water, lightning, fire, jungle, etc.). Masses are characterized by drums, songs and dances, and also by food and the burning of incense.''The orixás can even manifest in the people who are present, creating a strong atmosphere of mysticism and spirituality.''9 – VISIT THE BEACHES IN BARRA''The city offers several beautiful beaches. However, some are a little farther away from the city center. The nearest and most popular beaches are in Barra.''Praia do Porto da Barra is undoubtedly the favorite among locals. This beach is quite small and overcrowded, although the atmosphere is fun, with many choices of food and drink.''Praia do Farol da Barra, a few minutes’ walk away, is much larger and more relaxed. Personally, I prefer this beach because there is always room to leave your things with plenty of space around.''10 – WATCH THE SUNSET AT THE LIGHTHOUSE''A visit to Farol da Barra is a lovely way to finish your evening. You can get there when you are done at the beach (as it is located in the same neighborhood) and watch an unforgettable sunset over Todos los Santos Bay.''SOME EXTRA ACTIVITIES IN SALVADOR:''1 – SAN ANTONIO''Right next to Pelourinho, you’ll find the neighborhood of San Antonio. If you walk up Ladeira do Carmo (just after Largo do Pelourinho), you will reach a small square with a virgin in the center of the roundabout. Some decent bars and restaurants are on the square and down the street. It’s a nice, less touristy part of the city.''2 – RIO VERMELHO''Lately, Rio Vermelho has become quite fashionable among visitors. It’s one of Salvador’s bohemian neighborhoods, where you’ll find good restaurants, hostels and a super-lively nightlife.''3 – SHOPPING''If you want to buy clothes or presents beyond the souvenirs of Pelourinho and Mercado Modelo, visit the commercial area of \u200b\u200bLapa, where you’ll find several shopping malls and cheap clothing stores. Barra stands out for its more expensive shops and a huge, fashionable mall.''4 – FAVELA PROJECTS''If you get out of the touristy areas, you will notice that Salvador is literally surrounded by''favelas''. Some are safer than others, but generally they aren’t places to visit on your own. However, if you have the opportunity to go with a local or visit an NGO, the experience can be very rewarding.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET AROUND SALVADOR''SUBWAY''Although Salvador has a''metro system'', it doesn’t go to any places of tourist interest. Therefore, most visitors don’t take the metro during their stay in the city.''BUS''The buses reach practically every neighborhood in the city. A line connects Pelourinho with Barra, facilitating access between the beaches and the colonial quarter. It’s safe, and you can pay the driver directly without needing a special card. The only problem is the frequency (every 30-40 minutes).''UBER''Uber works like a charm in Salvador, and the rides are quite cheap. It’s a good option for moving around the city, especially when traveling in small groups.''FERRY''A ferry service connects Salvador with Bom Despacho, on Itaparica Island. The ferries depart every 30 minutes from the port next to Feira de São Joaquim. It costs about two dollars and the journey takes only 40 minutes. If you are traveling to other destinations in the south of Bahia, such as Ileus or Itacaré, you’ll first need to arrive in Bom Despacho, from where the buses leave.''SECURITY TIPS IN SALVADOR''Salvador is not the most dangerous city in Brazil. However, robberies are frequent, so you have to be careful. In addition to always taking taxis at night, I recommend that you take extra care in Pelourinho once it gets dark.''Despite being the most touristy place in the city and having police control, there are some robberies in the area. The main problem is that, except for Tuesdays (when percussion parties are held), the streets of the colonial quarter are practically empty at night, and bandits seize the opportunity to fleece tourists.''OTHER PLACES YOU CAN VISIT IN BAHIA''1 – CHAPADA DIAMANTINA''Without a doubt, this is my favorite national park in Brazil. Chapada Diamantina is simply spectacular. Check out this guide to explore the best secrets of this hidden paradise.''To get there, you can take a night bus to Lençois (seven hours) or continue to Palmeiras (one more hour), then take a local van to Vale do Capão (another hour).''2 – ITACARÉ''If you are looking for beautiful beaches, great nightlife and good surfing, Itacaré should be your next destination. In addition to the beaches near the village, there are several tracks to access beautiful, wild places.''The beaches in Itacaré are not those of white sand and turquoise water. They are surrounded by steep mountains with wild rainforests all around. They are really pretty!''The bus from Bom Despacho takes about five hours to reach Itacaré.''3 – PRAIA DO FORTE''What was once a quiet fishing village is now a popular holiday destination. Praia do Forte is a pleasant place for strolling along colonial streets and visiting the sea turtle recovery project. In addition, the region has some spectacular beaches.''The trip from Salvador takes about two hours.''4 – IMBASSAI''If you stay on the bus an hour farther north from Praia do Forte, you will arrive in Imbassai. This is a quiet village with well-kept inns, some bars on the river bank and a relaxing atmosphere.''5 – MORRO DE SÃO PAULO''Probably the most touristy destination in the whole Bahia State, Morro is characterized by its beautiful beaches and endless parties. It’s very popular among Argentines, to the point that you’ll hear more Spanish than Portuguese!''If you want to get there on a budget, take the ferry to Bom Despacho, continue by bus to Valença and take another ferry to Morro. If you want to avoid all the hustle, a direct boat leaves from Mercado Modelo in Salvador, although it’s much more expensive.''WHERE TO STAY IN SALVADOR''Hostels in Pelourinho usually cost about 25-30 reais for a shared room. Rio Vermelho is becoming quite popular among backpackers, although the options are somewhat more expensive.''I’ve always stayed at''Açai Hostel'', which has an incredible atmosphere. It’s well located in the Pelourinho and most guests go out together to explore the city and party. I highly recommend it!''If you prefer staying in Rio Vermelho, I have heard good things about''The Hostel Salvador'', although I personally haven’t stayed there.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''If you are exploring Bahia, I recommend that you get a good insurance policy so that you can travel with peace of mind. If you are looking for professional insurance at a good price,''World Nomads''offers some of the best coverage on the market.''Did you enjoy The Best Things to Do in Salvador de Bahia, Brazil? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Living in a favela in Rio''Top 10 Best Hikes in Rio de Janeiro''Travel Guide to Chapada Diamantina – Best Hi...''If you liked this, please share it:''The marvelous city of Rio de Janeiro is known worldwide for samba, beaches and Carnival – I know, the typical boring stereotypes. After having lived there for over a year, I can assure you that there are many other things besides those over-exploited clichés.''One of the things that strikes me most is the number of trails you can find inside the city. For those who don’t know much about Rio, this beautiful city is completely surrounded by jungle and mountains. Tijuca Park is the largest national park located within a city. In fact, it looks more like a city within a jungle, and not the other way around.''The result is incredible scenery with dozens of trails for all levels, from 20-minute walks to several-hour routes, all offering amazing views of the city. As a hiker, I’ve spent my time in Rio hiking around those trails to find the best routes.''My favorites are''Dois Irmãos, Pedra da Gavea and Morro da Urca''. However, any hike in Rio is worth a try. I hope you enjoy them:''THE 10 BEST HIKES IN RIO DE JANEIRO''1 – DOIS IRMÃOS''It’s no coincidence that this is the first hike on the list. The “two brothers” mount is beautiful from both below and above. If you visit Ipanema Beach, you’ll see that there are two great hills to the right; that’s Dois Irmãos. On the hillside overlooking the sea, you’ll find favela Vidigal, one of the largest slums in Rio.''The views from the top are breathtaking: Ipanema Beach, the Lagoa, the Christ, the Sugar Loaf, Niteroi … You can see practically the entire city except the northern zone.''Hiking time:''45 min + 25 min return''Difficulty:''Easy – Moderate''Height:''533 m''How to get there:''First you need to get to Vidigal. You can take a bus from Ipanema or Copacabana, or take the metro to Antero de Quental, in Leblon. If you take the bus, you’ll have to ask the driver to stop when you reach Vidigal. If you take the metro, you’ll have to walk 20 minutes from Leblon to Vidigal.''When you get to Vidigal, you can take a mototaxi or a van (you’ll find them in the main square) and go up to Alto Vidigal. The price is about 3.50 reais, but if they see that you’re a gringo, they’ll try to charge you 5 or 10 reais. You can always say that you’re a resident and then you should pay the right price.''There are several ways to start the hike – one from the soccer field (keep in mind that the entrance is closed on Mondays) and another from the highest part of the favela. The easiest way is to get to Alto Vidigal in a van or mototaxi and then ask the people around for the “trilha dos Dois Irmãos.” Everyone knows the way. Once you start the trail, it’s impossible to get lost.''2 – MORRO DA BABILÔNIA''The hike to Morro da Babilônia offers the best views of the Sugar Loaf, Praia Vermelha and Botafogo. This short hike is well located and accessible. You can make the most of the day visiting the communities of Babilônia and Chapeú Mangueira, although I recommend that you ask about the current situation first. Although these favelas were the safest in Rio, the situation from 2016-2017 has once again become a bit complicated. There may be shootings from time to time. Do you want to know about my experience living in Chapeú Mangueira?''Hiking time:''25 min + 15 min return''Difficulty:''Easy''Height:''200 m''How to get there:''The fastest way is to travel by metro to Cardeal Arcoverde station or take a bus to Avenida Princesa or Leme. From there, walk on Gustavo Sampaio Street, then take Anchieta Street to the left and ask for Ladeira Ary Barroso. Start walking up the hill to Babilônia Square and ask someone how to get to the starting point of the trail. I’d love to explain the path in more detail, but favelas are real labyrinths. Ask around and the local people will put you in the right direction. Don’t worry, the residents of the favelas are nice people. Once on the trail, the hike is easy and short, taking about 20 minutes.''3 – MORRO DA URCA – SUGAR LOAF''Taking the cable car up to the Pão de Açucar is one of the most famous activities for visitors. The cable car goes from Praia Vermelha to Morro da Urca, then continues all the way up to the Sugar Loaf. What many people don’t know is that there is a trail where you can get up to Morro da Urca on your own, for free, without taking the cable car. I recommend that you visit this place at dusk, when the sun is setting behind the mountains, near the Christ.''Hiking time:''20 min + 10 min return''Difficulty:''Easy''Height:''220 m''How to get there:''You’ll have to get to the Urca neighborhood first, then walk to Praia Vermelha. You can take a bus in the direction of UFRJ University or take the metro to Botafogo and walk about 20 minutes. Once in Praia Vermelha, take the path on your left as you are looking towards the sea. The beginning of the trail is well marked and the trail was totally revamped for the Olympics, with wooden stairs, protection, etc. It’s a short and simple route for all levels.''4 – CHRIST THE REDEEMER – CORCOVADO''Undoubtedly the highlight of any visit to Rio, the Corcovado hill has unbeatable views of Botafogo Bay, Tijuca Park and practically the whole city. What makes this visit expensive is the transport, i.e., the train or van that goes up there. However, you can hike the mountain on your own and pay only 14 reales for entrance to the Christ statue. The trek isn’t complicated, but it has steep parts and takes a few hours, so you should be in good shape.''Hiking time:''2 hours + 1 hour return''Difficulty:''Moderate''Height:''710 m''How to get there:''The trail begins in Parque Lage, near the Jardim Botanico (Botanical Garden). Access to the path is behind one of the buildings located in the middle of the park. After that point, it’s well marked.''5 – PEDRA DA GAVEA''Pedra da Gavea, with its square table shape at the top, is one of the most challenging climbs on the list. Generally, it takes about three hours to get up and two hours to get down. To that you must add the time you are going to spend on top, plus the transport. In the end, this activity will take you the whole day. However, the views from the top are worth the effort. It has, by far, the best views of Dois Irmãos, Pedra Bonita, São Conrado and Barra da Tijuca. It’s only 842 meters high, but with its location right in front of the sea, you’ll feel like you’re much higher. Keep in mind that to get to the top you must use ropes to climb a 20-meter wall. That part isn’t difficult, but it’s almost totally vertical, so those with vertigo should watch out.''Hiking time:''3 hours + 2 hours return''Difficulty:''Moderate – Challenging''Height:''842 m''How to get there:''The trail begins in Barra da Tijuca. You must go to Estrada do Sorima, in the Barrinha neighborhood. At the end of that street is a square where cars are parked. The walk begins at the end of the street, to the right of a gate with the number 936 on it.''6 – PEDRA BONITA''Although this place is frequented more often by paragliding enthusiasts than by mountaineers, the trek to Pedra Bonita is a highly recommended activity. It’s located very close to Pedra da Gavea, which means you can enjoy similar incredible views but with less effort. It’s a great option for those who prefer a less challenging trail.''Hiking time:''40 min + 25 min return''Difficulty:''Easy – Moderate''Height:''693 m''How to get there:''The biggest problem with this trek is the transport. The ideal would be to travel by car or taxi. By car, you can take the Lagoa – Barra road and exit at Estrada das Canoas. Then you’ll leave at the intersection for Estrada da Pedra Bonita. You can park there and find the path easily.''If you want to go by public transport, there are other options. You can take a bus to São Conrado. From there, you’ll take the line 448 Macarí – São Conrado. (Be careful because in Rio the bus lines change often.) This line will take you to the entrance of the parking lot of the paragliding track, where you’ll start the hike.''7 – PEDRA DO TELÉGRAFO''Photo by''Jefferson Vieira de Melo''. Wikimedia Commons.''This place is a bit farther from the city, but it has become very popular because of the optical effect it offers. The trail itself is quite simple and makes for a quick climb. The main attraction involves taking a photo of yourself hanging from a big stone. If you go during the weekend, be prepared to find a long line of people waiting for the picture. The stone is situated in such a way that it looks like you’re hanging from a great cliff when, in fact, you’re one meter off the ground.''Hiking time:''35 min + 15 min return''Difficulty:''Easy''Height:''354 m''How to get there:''To get to Pedra do Telégrafo, you need to take a bus going to Guaratiba. Then you’ll continue along Estrada da Barra da Guaratiba until you reach the beach, where the trail begins.''8 – VISTA CHINESA''A perfect trail for those who want views as good as what you’ll find from the Christ but who also want to hike an easy path. Although most tourists visit this place by car or taxi, the trail to this beautiful viewpoint takes only 40 minutes. You can also take the opportunity to stroll through Parque da Cidade or visit neighboring Rocinha, the largest favela in Latin America.''Hiking time:''45 min + 20 min return''Difficulty:''Easy''Height:''380 m''How to get there:''You’ll have to take a bus to the Gavea neighborhood and ask for Parque da Cidade, which is a beautiful park with gardens, rivers, a museum and many walks. It’s a perfect place for a picnic or to spend an afternoon having tea with friends. Inside the park, going up the right side is a sign indicating the path to Horto. You’ll take that trail. Then you’ll reach a point where it says: “Attention, dangerous dogs.” There you’ll take the path on the right, but not the one that goes down; take the one that goes up. After that point, you can’t get lost.''9 – MORRO DO LEME''If you’re looking for a super-easy, fast, centrally located trail with good views, Morro do Leme is for you. This little mount is at the end of the district of Leme. The entrance is through the military compound, so you can be sure that no one will rob you. It’s open every day of the year, but access is allowed only until 16:30 hours. Unfortunately, you can’t enjoy the sunset from the top, but the views are also amazing during the day.''Hiking time:''20 min + 10 min return''Difficulty:''Very easy''Height:''128 m''How to get there:''You’ll take the metro to Cardeal Arcoverde or a bus to Av. Princesa or Leme. Head to the beach and walk to the left, facing the sea. At the end, you’ll see the military post with a large entrance gate.''10 – PICO DA TIJUCA''Photo by''Edson S. Moreira''. Wikimedia Commons.''Located in the heart of Tijuca Park, this is the highest peak in the city, with 1,022 meters of height. The climb isn’t difficult, but it takes several hours to reach the top. The trail is well marked and it’s possible to see several birds, butterflies and perhaps some monkeys. The view from the top offers a complete 360-degree panoramic view of the city.''Hiking time:''2.5 hours + 1 hour return''Difficulty:''Moderate''Height:''1,022 m''How to get there:''The access entrance is in the Alto da Boa Vista neighborhood. To get there, you can take a bus from Rua Conde do Bonfim (Uruguaina metro station) to Praça Alfonso Viseu. There you’ll find the Estrada dos Picos road, where the walk to the entrance begins. This means adding an extra hour to the trek.''PLAN YOUR TRIP TO RIO DE JANEIRO''WHERE TO STAY''I love this hostel in Copacabana:''Villa Budget Copacabana.''AirBnb is also a good option for couples and groups, with lots of affordable rooms and apartments in Rio de Janeiro. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Brazil.''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''How did you like it? What will''your next hike in Rio de Janeiro''be? I hope you enjoy this magnificent city from above!''Did you like the article? Please, leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''Torres del Paine W Trek: All you need to know''Short Hike to Seven Sisters Falls in Grenada''If you liked this, please share it:''– Hey, Miguel, how are you doing in Rio? Where are you living? In Copacabana?''– Well, nearby … but I’m living in a favela.''– What? Are you crazy?''That’s how most conversations with my friends begin, and the truth is, I understand their point. For those who don’t know much about Rio, the idea of a gringo living in a favela may seem a bit shocking. However, the reality is somewhat different. Some favelas in the southern part of the city (the rich part) have gone through several processes, like pacification (first) and gentrification (after) that have made these places “safe for foreigners.”''First, we must understand the reality of the favelas. These neighborhoods were built illegally by the poorest classes, who needed a place to live but who obviously couldn’t afford to buy regular houses. Let’s say that each one built his house with the help of cousins, friends, \u200b\u200band neighbors. The infrastructures were poor, the access was difficult, the urban planning was non-existent (urban planning in a favela?), and the services were precarious. To understand this reality, we must go back to the times of slavery, or today’s social differences and racism. If you take a tour around the favela, you’ll see that many of its inhabitants are black. If you take a tour around Ipanema, you’ll see that most inhabitants are white. And that’s a fact.''Historically, these slums have been controlled by the narcos, who often fought among themselves to take over more favelas and extend their territories. Because favelas were “illegal” constructions within the city, there wasn’t much control over what was happening inside them, and the police forces never showed up. Let’s say that the favelas had their own laws.''Due to the World Cup and the Olympics (although the idea had been implemented earlier), the Rio government decided to implement a plan to pacify the favelas, remove narcos, create a safer city, and, of course, start levying taxes and electricity bills on millions of people who previously hadn’t paid for such things.''In the beginning, it looked like the pacification was a great success. Many favelas became safe, new businesses flourished, and everything seemed perfect. Of course, not everyone was happy. If you ask the inhabitants of a favela what they think about these changes (the pacification, the gringos living there, etc.), a lot of them will tell you that it’s the best thing that has happened to them, that they have opened a small restaurant or a hostel, and so are doing quite well. Others will tell you that it’s a total disaster, that the rents have increased while the inhabitants have the same low-paid jobs and can no longer live there.''The reality now is that there are more foreigners (and Brazilians from other regions) living in the favelas. There is a lot of talk about the subject. What’s the impact of pacification? Who benefits from it? Is it safe to live in a favela?''Today I’ll tell you what I’ve learned after''living for half a year in a favela in Rio de Janeiro''. I hope that through my impressions you can understand the complex reality of these communities a bit better.''1- NOT ALL FAVELAS ARE THE SAME''It’s important to clarify the fact that each favela is a world of its own. Some are very quiet, while others remain “dangerous territories.” Some have good services, hostels, and chic restaurants, while others have virtually no drinking water or decent sanitation systems. Some have a considerable foreign community, while in others the residents haven’t seen a gringo in their lives. Some have good views and accesses, while others are three hours by bus from the city center.''Therefore, the experience of a person living in one favela may be totally different from the experience of a person living in another. In this article, I am going to talk about the favelas of the south of Rio, which are the ones I know best.''2- THEY HAVE A VIBRANT CULTURE''Rio de Janeiro is world famous for its music, its culture, and its dances. However, the favela culture is on another level. When you walk through the favelas’ alleys, you’ll find bars with extra-loud music, people drinking beer on a terrace, guys dancing in the main square, others playing percussion, or a group of kids practicing capoeira.''The favelas have their own identity and a very strong culture that they have managed to conserve over the years. It’s easy to find classes of all kinds (singing, yoga, capoeira, languages) or even group activities to visit the nearby hills.''3- THEY WORK AS A COMMUNITY''Many people don’t call them favelas; they call them communities. These neighborhoods were created out of nothing, with the help of many hands in a complicated economic environment. Thus, favelas’ inhabitants began to coexist by helping themselves, sharing things, having BBQs together, working in the houses of neighbors, etc. It’s amazing to see how everyone knows everyone else and how they share what they have.''4- THEY HAVE THE BEST VIEWS''In the southern part of the city, most favelas have outstanding views. While the rich people built their neighborhoods near the beach, the poorest people had to climb to the nearby hills and build into the bush. Thus, the favelas grew, populating a great portion of the''hills around the city''. The result: breathtaking views of the mountains, the sea, and the nearby islands. In any rich neighborhood, it would be difficult to match these views.''5- THEY KNOW HOW TO PARTY''The communities of Vidigal and Babilônia often have vibrant parties. They are usually in the upper part of the favela and attract both locals and foreigners. The atmosphere is very good and the music very loud.''The parties at Vidigal have become so fashionable that they usually charge an entrance fee and the crowd is usually middle-upper class. The parties in Babilônia, on the other hand, have a more local flavor and the entrance is usually free. Of course, you’ll get a great dose of funk music (very typical in the favelas), “Antarctica” beer and super-hot Brazilian dances.''Credit:''Ed Johnson''. Flickr.''6- THE PACIFICATION DIDN’T WORK''In some favelas it worked better than in others, but overall, it didn’t work. Some communities that were''pacification''success stories have been overtaken by the gangs again, and there are shootings every week! There might be confrontations with the police or just fights between gangs.''There are still a few communities that remain “quiet,” although they may have occasional shootings. It seems that the government no longer wants to spend more money on “buying peace” now that the Olympics are over. In fact, the traffic never stopped in Rio. The government and the police paid the gangs so that they wouldn’t make much trouble during the carnival, Olympics, etc., and the peace was delivered. Now that it’s all over, who cares about what happens in a poor neighborhood?''Credit:''Rodrigo Lobo''. Flickr.''7- THERE ARE NO ROBBERIES''The security issue in a favela is pretty crazy. Most people think that, as you get close, you will be robbed of even your clothes, but it’s not like that. As I mentioned, there may be some shootings depending on the community (and not in all of them), but as for robberies, assaults, etc., the favela is the safest place in Rio de Janeiro. Absolutely no one is going to assault you in a favela. You can walk with an iPhone in your hand, showing your gringo face … and it’s all good! No one is going to mess with you.''8- GENTRIFICATION''The creation of hostels and apartments for foreigners is speeding the process of gentrification in many communities. Real estate speculation and the government’s interest in collecting more taxes have caused prices in the favelas to soar. Many people benefit from these measures, while others are seriously harmed. The controversy continues.''9- THERE ISN’T MUCH PRIVACY''The distance between my house and my neighbor’s house was about one meter. When I opened my window, I saw my neighbor in front of my face. I could almost high-five him! I guess it’s all part of the charm and madness of living in a swarm of houses piled up without any apparent order, yet still working in its own way – order within chaos. In addition, the walls of the houses are thin and don’t have any type of sound insulation. Consequently, you hear everybody’s conversations – and they hear what happens in your house.''10- THE SERVICES ARE BAD''Despite some improvements, the primary services are poor in most communities. The water quality is usually bad, power cuts are common, and the sewage system needs a redesign. On the other hand, it’s true that pacification and the “normalization” of these neighborhoods have brought some improvements. Social investments have been made, and there have been electrical installations, sanitation improvements, etc.''However, it seems that these actions are still far from the promises of the government. There is a long way to go, but it’s expected that the taxes paid by the communities will have a positive long-term impact.''11- THE NEIGHBORS ARE INCREDIBLE''Despite all the problems, the dirt, the lack of services, the loud music from the neighbors, the drug dealers, etc., I loved living there. Just a few days after arriving, I already felt at home. I was lucky to live with wonderful people (Brazilians, other foreigners) and encountered an amazing community atmosphere.''My neighbors became my friends and stopped by often to share experiences, work in our roof garden, or share a meal. People from the favelas have that characteristic; they are kind, open, and friendly. They see that you’re a foreigner and they want you to feel good in their community. Undoubtedly, that coexistence has been the best thing about living there.''It has been a great experience and I’m very grateful to all those who have shared their time with me. I’m going to miss you!''Valeu Chapeu! Obrigado''What do you think? Would you stay in a favela for a while? Leave a comment!''I’m not exaggerating, nor do I get carried away by the emotions or the excitatory effect of the Argentinian mate. I’m serious; this is one of the''best hiking routes''in all South America!''The landscapes down there are amazing in the Patagonian style, with trees that change color, large glaciers, turquoise lagoons and disproportionate rock walls.''Many people compare this place with the famous and equally impressive''Torres del Paine in Chile'', and they are right; both hikes are amazing and have similar landscapes. However, the hikes around the Fitz Roy Trek and Cerro Torre, located in''“Los Glaciares National Park”'', offer a variety of\xa0opportunities for all levels.''Once you reach the small and friendly''town of El Chalten'', in the South of Argentina, a wide range of options opens up before your eyes, from short walks to long trails or even rock climbing.''Sunset over El Chaltén''Map. Where is the Cerro Torre and Fitz Roy Trek?''Most popular routes and itineraries''The Fitz Roy Trek. One day.''The hike to the Fitz Roy is by far''the most popular choice''among visitors. The distance is about 25 kms and can be completed in 6-7 hours. El Chalten is the point of departure and return.''After an hour’s walk through beautiful forests and hills, you get to the Fitz Roy viewpoint to enjoy excellent views of the entire environment.''Jabi at the viewpoint''You keep walking until you leave behind the “Poincenot campsite”, then, you walk the last part of the route, which is also the hardest. In any case, the effort will be worthwhile.''In the end, you get to the famous''“Laguna de los Tres”'', which has spectacular views of the Fitz Roy.''Laguna de los Tres''The Cerro Torre Trek. One day.''The''second most popular trail''takes us to the beautiful Cerro Torre and the mountains around it. The difficulty is low. The distance is about 22 kms and can be completed in 5-6 hours. El Chalten is the point of departure and return.''The trek goes gently uphill and downhill through a beautiful forest before reaches the''“Laguna Torre”''. There is a path around the right side of the lake that gets you pretty close to the “Cerro Torre”, with amazing views of the glaciers beneath the rock wall.''Laguna Torre''The Cerro Torre in the clouds''Following the path on the right side''Fitz Roy & Cerro Torre Circuit. Two days.''This is the route we decided to hike. Basically, it is''a combination of the above two routes.''You overnight camp in one of the designated areas. The total distance is about 36 kms and the hike is completed in two days. The main advantage is that you can explore nearby areas without rushing and will enjoy the most beautiful sunsets and sunrises.''On the first day, I recommend that you reach the''“Poincenot campsite”''and pitch your tent. Then, leave most of your heavy stuff there and visit “La Laguna de los Tres”. If you have extra time, you can explore nearby ares. We walked down to the lake''“Piedras Blancas ”''and it was really beautiful.''On the second day, it’s really worth getting up early to watch''the sun rise over the Fitz Roy,''turning the rock wall orange. It is spectacular!''Then, you can pack up your tent and head towards the''“Laguna Torre”'', enjoy the beautiful views and start your walk back to El Chalten. Now that you are done, you can have a “matecito” or a glass of red Argentinian wine (or both) and have a good rest.''HIKING TIP:''I recommend you a''Lightweight backpack''for these amazing routes!''Budget for Hiking the Cerro Torre and Fitz Roy Trek from El Chalten''We spent l''ess than $10 a day'', including accommodation in El Chalten and food (and wine). However, the Argentinian economy, inflation and the dollar-peso exchange have changed considerably since my last visit, so everything must be more expensive now.''Park entrance fee''The entrance to the park, unlike with''the Torres del Paine'',''is free''.''Accommodation in El Chalten''The town of El Chalten is basically designed for tourism, so you’ll find lots of hostels, hotels and even a couple of campsites.''We paid''60 pesos per person''to camp in “El Relincho” campsite (but, as I said, this price must have changed since then). The camping is really nice. You’ll have a super-equipped kitchen, clean bathrooms and a large camping ground.''If you are looking for a real bed, I recommend that you have a look at''Hostel Los Viajeros''. It’s a cool place at a good price.''Accommodation during the hike''The authorized camping areas are Poincenot camping, Rio Blanco camping , Capri camping and camping De Agostini.''All are free''.''Food and drink''There are''several stores and minimarkets''in El Chalten. Prices are higher than in the rest of the country, but you can find almost anything.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good travel insurance, no matter the length of the trip. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options.''Transport. How to get to El Chaltén''The easiest way to get to El Chalten is by taking a''bus from El Calafate'', where you should not miss a visit to the “Perito Moreno Glacier”. The journey from El Calafate to El Chalten takes only about three hours.''Weather. When to complete the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek''The best time to visit this paradise is''from October to late April''. We went there in April and I have to say that the scenery was amazing. All the forests were showing off the yellows, oranges and greens of autumn.''Tips for hiking the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek''Do not trust blue skies''One of the main pecularities of Patagonia is how easily the weather can change in a few minutes. It is possible to experience all four seasons in the same day.''Bring warm clothes''and a raincoat even if\xa0it looks like a pretty day.''To get an idea of the weather, I recommend that you visit this''forecast website'', which is one of the best I’ve found.''If you have the time, make it a two or three-day hike''One of the nicest things about these landscapes is''watching the sun rise''over the stone giants. If you can, spend at least one night camping and enjoy the spectacle.''Be clean!''It is very important that you''collect all your garbage''and try to leave the place as you found it.''Mountain Gear for Hiking the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek''CHECK OUT''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Patagonian expedition!''Did you enjoy How to hike the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek? Please, leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best route for hiking the Quilotoa loop and Saquis...''Torres del Paine W Trek: All you need to know''If you liked this, please share it:''We’d like to begin this guest post by thanking Miguel one and a thousand times for being our host here at Travelsauro. He has opened his blog´s doors to us and we are truly grateful. Thanks to him for every tip and trick he has offered; they’re awesome and highly motivating.''As for the presentations, we are Pablo and Let, Let and Pablo, heading up a project called''Aprendizaje Viajero''. In it, we write stories, tips and anecdotes for our fellow travellers. Today, we come to Travelsauro to speak about one of the most interesting routes in Europe –''a 10-day trip to the Balkans.''Perast, Montenegro''During this trip, we visited''Albania, Montenegro and Bosnia''. It was an authentic adventure. Today we are going to focus on Montenegro – how we arrived there and how we visited one of the most interesting spots in Europe: the deepest natural canyon, Durmitor.''FLYING TO THE BALKANS''Dubrovnik (Croatia) is one of the most famous entry points to the region. However, we found another way to do it from below (its neighbour Albania) thanks to a very cheap flight we found online. We’d like to say that it’s very important to know\xa0the best day of the week to book flights, because depending on the day it’s possible to find variations of up to 15% of the price.''We flew from Madrid for about 60€ thanks to one of the premises of the article: NEVER book a flight on a Saturday.''ALBANIA''Tirana''Tirana is a very different city (if we can call it so). Although it’s in Europe, its streets don’t make you feel as though you are in the Old Continent. The people are friendly and happy to help you with anything you need. Keep in mind that English is not usually spoken here, so you might have to learn sign language before you book the trip.''The food is tasty, original and very cheap. The city offers a good opportunity to try new things. Needless to say, most infrastructures are awful; you will see this as soon as you leave the city. There is currently no train station, no bus station and no McDonalds! It’s actually the only European capital without the famous Golden Arches, though this is a fact we appreciated, as it made us feel as though we were in an exotic destination. We hate that place, seriously.''Some people on the street told us that behind a shopping mall there were a few buses from different travel agencies going to Montenegro. Thus, we continued our trip on wheels with an Albanian driver who was completely crazy about traditional music.''MONTENEGRO''Budva''Montenegro was the next stop on our trip through the Balkans. First, we stopped at Budva, home of the famous Sveti Stefan. It’s a very “Instagram-friendly” small island. However, access is quite difficult because the island belongs to a five-star hotel. It’s not a “backpacker spot.” Still, we took some pics from the beach and it was worth it!''In Budva, we rented a car, then decided to visit the heart of the Balkans. This meant getting away from the beaches and into the mountains. Before that, though, we had an amazing stop: Kotor (which looks like a small Dubrovnik).''Kotor''Kotor is the same thing as saying “tourism,” so we stayed there only half a day. The fortress and Kotor Bay are two places you should visit. Seriously, get up the stairs and you’ll find amazing views from the top. They’re totally worth it.''From Kotor, there are day trips to a town called Perast, which is just 10 minutes away by car. There, you can eat at the seaside for just 5€ and enjoy the most AMAZING views of the two islands in the middle of the lake. For another 5€, you can find people who will take you there by boat. Highly recommended. Make sure you have your camera ready because you’ll take lots of pictures.''Durmitor National Park: The deepest canyon in Europe''We started going deeper into the country, as we couldn’t wait to visit that region. Throughout this 10-day trip through the Balkans, there was certainly a must-visit place: Durmitor National Park. You need A LOT of patience to get there because the road delights you with 400 km of turn after turn. Be patient. Most drivers are absolutely crazy, but it’s all part of the fun.''Montenegro has plenty of mountains, and the ride bordering the Piva River up to the Bosnian frontier was one of the most beautiful roads we’d ever driven. Crossing the national park will leave you breathless. You’ll have to drive through 18 tunnels carved through the rocks, though they look more like caves than tunnels.''This region is perfect for rafting and other adventurous activities, so go ahead and try some if you’d like. However, we think that simply driving around this part of Europe was an adventure in itself.''BOSNIA''We crossed to Bosnia through deep forests after making a stop at Scepan Polje, on one of the most dangerous border crossings in Europe. It’s hard to get there due to the conditions of the road (and we were soaking wet due to a storm), so be careful if you decide to take this route.''The border police at Scepan Polje didn’t help, either.''The Republic of Srpska''Wasn’t this Bosnia? Yes, but we want to remind the reader that the country is divided not only politically and religiously, but also territorially. From 1992 to 1995, Bosnia suffered one of the bloodiest wars modern Europe has ever seen. One of the consequences was the creation of the Republic of Srpska, taking up 49 percent of the country. Most people there are orthodox Serbians, while the other 51 percent are Bosniaks.''Sarajevo''The road to Sarajevo was by far the worst we had encountered throughout our journey. The lack of pavement and the poor weather conditions didn’t help. However, the landscapes are very picturesque. Sadly, in every village we crossed, we found the aftermath of the war, which gave us the chills.''Sarajevo is fascinating, one of the most spectacular cities we have been to. It’s one of the highlights of any trip through the Balkans.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the country. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''– Article written by Pablo and Leti from Aprendizaje Viajero –''We would like to thank Miguel once again for opening his doors to us.''For more information on Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia or Croatia, you may follow us at:''Aprendizaje Viajero''/''Facebook''/''Instagram''Did you like this itinerary for a 10-day trip to the Balkans? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Pokhara is one of those charming cities that always attracts travelers where you can easily stay longer than you planned. Located on the banks of Lake Phewa, the city is surrounded by impressive mountains and peaks, with some of the best trekking routes in the world.''In addition to stunning hikes and lakes, this popular destination has a wide range of culture and leisure activities, such as markets, pagodas, cafés and restaurants offering delicious Nepalese food.''Just the perfect stop before starting your adventure in the mountains!''The 8 best things to do in Pokhara''1. MOUNTAIN GEAR''Pokhara is a great bazaar for mountaineering. Hiking is the main tourist activity in the region, so it’s not surprising that the city has lots of these stores. Although most of the items for sale\xa0are counterfeit, there are some real bargains. You’ll find different qualities among these fake items depending on the price, and some of them are really good. That’s the place to buy your “North Fake” jacket!''2. WALK AROUND THE LAKE''Take a day to just walk around the lake, relax and see how local women wash their clothes on the shore. You can hire a boat trip to admire the mountains from beautiful Lake Phewa.''Lake Phewa in Pokhara. photo by''Allie_Caulfield''.flickr''People around the lake''3. WORLD PEACE PAGODA''Come to the beautiful world peace pagoda to enjoy its architecture and landscapes. Located at the top of a hill, the pagoda offers nice views of the Annapurna range and other nearby mountains.''World Peace Pagoda, Pokhara. photo by''ngotoh''. flickr''4. ADVENTURE ACTIVITIES''The adventure capital of Nepal lives up to its name with activities such as paragliding, bungee jumping and zip-lining.''Paragliding in Pokhara''is by far the most popular of these options and allows you to fly over the lake with spectacular views of the Himalayas. Prices start from about $70 US.''5. SARANGKOT VIEWPOINT''If you are not fond of extreme activities, you can hike up to Sarangkot viewpoint to get some nice bird’s-eye views. Although it was a bit cloudy when I visited the place, you can enjoy\xa0incredible views of the Himalayas on a good day.''On the way back to Pokhara''6. TREKKING THE HIMALAYAS''Trekking is the main reason most people visit Pokhara. The most popular routes are the Annapurna circuit, which can be completed in about 21 days, and''the hike to the Annapurna base camp'', which can be completed in about 8 days.''At the Annapurna base camp''7. RELAX, GET A MASSAGE OR GO OUT''After several days or even weeks spent hiking the mountains, what could be better than some relaxation or a massage? The city is full of bars, massage centers and restaurants that get quite animated at night. In Pokhara, it’s impossible to get bored!''Having fun with DJ Lucas''8. TRY LOCAL FOOD''Nepalese food''is delicious, so do not miss the momos (flour dough filled with meat and spices), the sekuwa lamb (roasted in a wood-fired oven with natural herbs and other spices) or the simple dal bhat (a lentil soup accompanied by rice, vegetables and chapati).''HOW TO GET TO POKHARA''Buses from Kathmandu cost between $10 – $25 US depending on the bus and the service. The local minibus is the cheapest option ($10 US), while companies like''Greenline''are more expensive but more comfortable.''If you decide to take the minibus, like\xa0I did, don’t let\xa0the speed and recklessness of the driver scare you: they are all just crazy!''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO TO POKHARA''Although you can visit the city at any time, the best seasons are spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November). This way, you avoid the cold winter and the rainy season.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION''I loved this hostel in Pokhara:''Pushkar Backpackers.''AirBnb is another good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Nepal. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you need a guidebook?''Get the''Lonely Planet Nepal''Next Read:''Best things to do in Kathmandu''Do you have any question about Best things to do in Pokhara? Please, contact me!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es. There are other affiliate links in the post too.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Explore one of the most impressive regions of the Chilean Patagonia and hike the famous Torres del Paine W trek!''The truth is that Patagonia is a unique place in the world! Its nature is just amazing, wild and hostile with very strong winds and cold rains. You can be walking through a barren “pampa” and suddenly find yourself in front of great mountains rising to the sky.''Huge cliffs dominate the landscape among rivers and lakes, while legendary glaciers keep eroding this precious land of fire colors. Patagonia is just that amazing!''After hiking a few routes in El Chalten (Argentina) we wanted to visit the other classic spot of the southern trekking: the Torres del Paine W circuit!''Important note:''We went there at the end of the season, when some camping areas were already closed and other parts of the hike were difficult to reach due to the heavy snow. Therefore, we could not complete the entire W. \xa0Under other circumstances, though, there would be no problem hiking\xa0the entire\xa0W circuit.''Details of the W route''Total distance:''70 km''Time:''6-7 days''Difficulty:''Moderate''Maximum Elevation:''1,100 meters''Our route:''Day 1:''Laguna Amarga – Camping Torres''Day 2:''Camping Torres – Camping Italiano''Day 3:''Camping Italiano – Camping Paine Grande''Day 4:''Camping Paine Grande – Camping Las Carretas''Day 5:''Camping Las Carretas – CONAF Administrative Headquarters''MAP''Day 1: Laguna Amarga – Camping Torres''The first day of hiking you will quickly feel the magic of the place you are visiting. This was a path without technical difficulty along a beautiful valley, decorated with autumn colors and great condors flying over the place.''At the end of the valley we reached Camping Torres, where you can camp without paying. The famous towers were not far from the campsite but the sky was pretty cloudy, so we decided to sleep and wake up early the next day to enjoy the sunrise over the towers.''On the way to the towers''Beautiful Valley!''Day 2: Camping Torres – Camping Italiano''After walking an hour or so on a steep and rocky path, we reached the main attraction of the trail: the beautiful Torres del Paine. The sunrise was stunning, the colors were changing all the time, so the mountain ridges were turning pink, yellow and orange while the visitors enjoyed a magical place. Simply spectacular!''After the sunrise, we went back to the campsite to pick up our things and continue to the next camp: Camping Italiano. This route runs\xa0close to “Los Cuernos del Paine”, which is another spectacular place.''The famous view of “Los Cuernos del Paine” cannot be seen\xa0from this path, but from the viewpoint “Los Cuernos”, on the other side of Lake Nordenskjold.''Amazing sunrise!''Getting close to Los Cuernos del Paine''Day 3: Camping Italiano – Camping Paine Grande''After a “fun” night dealing with wild mice so that they couldn’t get into the tent and eat our food (at that time there was a huge plague of mice), we took the path up to the French valley, trying to keep on the W route.''Unfortunately, the weather was horrible; it was snowing quite a bit\xa0and the road was difficult to follow, so we decided to turn back. That day we reached the Paine Grande campsite.''On the way up to Valle Francés''Geting out of Valle Francés''Day 4: Camping Paine Grande – Camping Las Carretas''Camping Grande is a private campsite, so we had to pay to pitch our tents. The good news is that you have access to a nice kitchen, bathrooms with hot showers and other amenities that can make you happy after a few days of cold and dirt.''Then we were told that Camping Frey was closed, as it was the last weekend of the season, so we had to cancel that part of the trek and continue walking through the “pampa” to reach Las Carretas campsite. This way, we avoided taking the private boat that crosses Lake Pehoé.''Day 5: Camping Las Carretas – CONAF Administrative Headquarters''The last day of the hike we decided to climb a nearby hill and enjoy spectacular views of Los Cuernos del Paine. In the beginning, the trail was quite marked, but close to the viewpoint it was difficult to follow, so I think we walked off\xa0the main trail, which is forbidden… But I promise we didn’t do it on purpose!''Impressive Cuernos del Paine''BUDGET''PARK ADMISSION FEE:''18,000 Chilean pesos''CAMPING WITHOUT PAYING EXTRA:''The facilities in these campsites are minimal, but they have toilets, water, etc. The park has the following''free campsites'':''– Camping Torres''– Camping Italiano''– Camping Paso''– Camping Las Carretas''PAID CAMPSITES:''There are two types of paid campsites: the private ones where you can find showers, bathrooms and a place to cook and the private ones\xa0next to a lodge that\xa0also offer access to a\xa0restaurant, mini-market, etc.''Most of them charge''between 8,000 and 10,000 pesos''.''– Refugio Paine Grande''– Campamento Francés''– Refugio Los Cuernos''– Refugio Chileno''– Campamento Serón''– Refugio Dickson''– Campamento Los Perros''– Refugio Grey''PRIVATE REFUGIOS (LODGES)''For those who want to enjoy comfortable beds and other amenities, there are a few lodges in the park. The price is''$ 50 per person''in a dormitory. I know… pretty expensive!''HOW TO GET TO TORRES DEL PAINE TREK''You can buy a bus ticket either in your hostel or right\xa0at the bus terminal. The return ticket costs about''16,000 pesos''. It’s an open ticket so you can go back to Puerto Natales on any day once you have finished your route.''Buses leave from Puerto Natales at 7.30 and 14.30 and it takes less than 3 hours to reach the park.''The same bus can pick you up from\xa0any of the three bus stops and then return to Puerto Natales. Buses\xa0leave at 13.00 from CONAF, 13.30 from Pudeto and 14.30 from the entrance. The evening bus leaves from the same places at 18.00, 19.00 and 19.45.''TRANSPORTATION WITHIN THE PARK''A\xa0boat crosses Lake Pehoe, connecting Pudeto with Refugio Paine Grande. The price is''25,000 pesos for one way''and 35,000 for a return ticket.''For those who do not want to walk much, there is a minibus connecting the park entrance with the Hotel Las Torres for about''3,000 pesos.''ACCOMMODATION IN PUERTO NATALES''I loved this place''in Puerto Natales'':''La Bitacora''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the country. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''FOOD''We brought all our food and cooked by ourselves, but the Refugios can provide meals at pretty prohibitive prices. Some of them have mini-markets where you can buy some candy bars, instant soups, beer, cookies, etc.''Don’t worry about drinking water, as you will find a lot of streams throughout the hike.''WEATHER. WHEN TO HIKE THE TORRES DEL PAINE W TREK?''The best season for hiking the Torres del Paine W Trek is usually spring / summertime,''between November and\xa0May''. After the last weekend of April the park shuts down some campsites and shelters, while\xa0the bus services stop.''In any case, Patagonia is a land of hostile weather, so you can expect almost any conditioins\xa0during any season. Strong winds are continuous throughout the year and can be especially cold in winter.''RECOMMENDED GEAR''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important during\xa0your Patagonian expedition!''TIPS FOR HIKING THE TORRES DEL PAINE W TRAIL''MICE PLAGUES''We found a lot of mice in some camping areas but I hope that\xa0was something unusual. It’s difficult\xa0to keep your food in a safe place. If you leave it inside the tent, the mice will make a hole and get in. If you leave your food\xa0hanging from a tree, the mice will climb and get it.''If you think there are mice around, a good solution is to keep your\xa0food in a pot face down on the floor and place a heavy stone on top of it. But who knows, those bastards are capable of anything!''BRING WARM CLOTHES''Keep in mind that the weather can change quickly and a nice blue sky can become a cloudburst in a few minutes. Bring some good clothes, a waterproof jacket, a hat, gloves, etc.''BOOKING ACCOMMODATION''If you want to book your accommodation in one of the Refugio lodges during the peak season, you’ll need to do so\xa0well in advance.\xa0You can book it here:''Fantastico Sur''Vertice Patagonia''BE CLEAN!''It is very important to collect all your\xa0garbage and try to leave the place just like you found it.''Next Read:''Hiking the Huayhuash circuit in Peru''Do you have any question about Hiking Torres del Paine W Trek? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hike to La Soufriere volcano in Saint Vincent''Santa Cruz trek: Hiking the Cordillera blanca in P...''How to Hike the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek f...''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''If you liked this, please share it:''If you are looking for the''best sling backpack of 2018'', then you have come to the right place. There are many options out there, and it’s not easy to make the right choice. That’s why I have reviewed the best models, so you don’t have to spend time comparing models and reviews.''I have selected high-quality sling bags, designed to be durable, stylish and functional. Take a look at the following list and choose the one that best fits your needs!''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the''best packing cubes'',''duffel bags'', and''travel adapters''.''COMPARISON CHART''Sling Backpacks''Material''Capacity''Price''Editor Rating''PATAGONIA ATOM''Polyester''8 L''$$''4.5''5.11 TACTICAL RUSH 10''Nylon''18 L''$$$''4.8''OUTDOORMASTER PACKABLE''Nylon''12 L''$''4.5''ADIDAS CAPITAL''Polyester''Large''$$''4.3''MAXPEDITION SITKA''Nylon''15 L''$$$''4.8''UNDER ARMOUR COMPEL''Polyester''Depending on size''$$''4.6''LEAPER CROSS BODY''Canvas''Depending on size''$$''4.5''WATERFLY''Nylon''10 L''$''4.6''RED ROCK ROVER''Polyester''9 L''$''4.5''ALTURA PHOTO''Nylon''Depending on model''$$''4.7''WHAT DO YOU NEED?''Before you choose a sling backpack, think about what you really need. Some models are designed to resist water and harsh conditions. Other models have fancy designs while others have many pockets and features.''Keep in mind that you might be carrying a camera or maybe a laptop too. In that case, there are models with special compartments to store electronic devices. This is important because not properly fastening a camera inside the bag can break the camera.''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 SLING BAGS FOR TRAVEL''PATAGONIA ATOM''Check price on Amazon''“Versatile, ergonomic and well-designed”''The''Patagonia Atom Sling Backpack''is a compact, well-designed sling bag. Patagonia is a top-end brand and all its products tend to be resistant, durable, stylish and efficient. This bag is not an exception. That’s why it’s at the top of the list. Thanks to its versatile design, you can use it as a courier bag, a backpack or a carry-all; whatever your needs, the Patagonia Atom will do the job.''With a strong and wide strap, it’s very comfortable and easy to wear. You can spin it around to your chest if you need quick access to your belongings. There is a zippered main pocket to open the bag and small zippered pockets inside so you can keep everything organized and safe. There is an extra zippered pocket on the shoulder to hold coins, napkins and other valuables.''It’s made from high-quality, durable polyester and features breathable 3-D spacer mesh pads on the shoulder strap and back. This is a great advantage, as it helps with moisture and ventilation.''Several colors are available depending on your preferences.''5.11 TACTICAL RUSH 10''Check price on Amazon''“Tough and resistant”''The''5.11 Tactical Rush 10''is a tough ranger backpack for adventure lovers. This bag is designed for tactical purposes but, of course, you can use it as you like. I find it to be an excellent choice for traveling, fishing, hunting, police / military operations and other situations in which you need a resistant bag to protect your belongings from physical damage and rain.''There is a wide variety of pockets in both the exterior and interior to keep everything organized, with spacious storage for multiple uses.''Some compartments are zippered while others use heavy-duty Velcro, so there are many possibilities for keeping everything safe. It features an ambidextrous padded shoulder strap, a concealed back-up belt system with a pistol compartment, a non-scratching sunglass pocket and a 1.5-liter hydration compartment.''It’s made from super-resistant nylon to hold up to a tough environment with a water-resistant treatment (even though none of the models on the list are completely waterproof).''OUTDOORMASTER PACKABLE''Check price on Amazon''“Packable travel bag”''The''Outdoormaster Packable''is a popular choice for multiple purposes. It’s comfortable, ultralight and spacious. A great choice for travel, hiking and cycling. One of the things I like most is that it can be folded up and packed away into its own zippered pocket. That means you can keep it inside your main backpack while traveling and then use it like a daypack when you visit cities or even for short hikes.''It features an exterior shoulder strap where you can keep your smartphone, a helpful water bottle pocket which is great for hiking and a hidden anti-theft pocket to keep your important belongings, like your passport and credit cards.''The interior has a 12-liter storage capacity, which is big enough for day travel but conveniently small so as not to overload your bag, preventing back pain. I think it’s the perfect size for a day backpack.''It’s made from resistant, lightweight nylon and comes in a comfortable and versatile design. You can change the position of the strap depending on your preference and clip it to the other shoulder. If you are going to wear it for many hours in a row, it’s recommended that you change its position from time to time so you can give a break to one of your shoulders.''ADIDAS CAPITAL''Check price on Amazon''“Comfortable with heavy loads”''The''Adidas Capital''is another great choice. Adidas has been making great sports clothes and gear for decades; that’s why their sling bags are very popular among travelers. Now the company presents an excellent, spacious bag with a great design and many possibilities. We’re talking about a high-quality sling backpack at a reasonable price.''This versatile bag features two main compartments to keep everything separated and organized, a padded tablet sleeve, a shoulder strap pocket and an internal zippered pocket to keep small things.''One of the biggest advantages of this bag is the Loadspring shock-absorbing shoulder strap. This makes a big difference if you need to carry many items because it’s meant to be comfortable even on heavy loads. A great idea if you’re carrying books, bottles of water and other stuff.''It’s made from 3-D Hexagon ripstop super-durable polyester with a special water-resistant treatment and extra padded panels to make it even more comfortable on your back. Adidas managed to make what most buyers reviewed as one of the most comfortable sling backpacks they ever tried. On the downside, the strap is affixed to the left shoulder position, so that might be a problem for people who would prefer to wear it on the other shoulder.''MAXPEDITION SITKA GEARSLINGER''Check price on Amazon''“For hiking or military purposes”''If you liked the 511 Tactical Rush 10, you’re going to love the''Maxpedition Sitka Gearslinger''backpack. This is another military-ranger backpack for adventure lovers, built with high-quality materials and an intelligent design. The Maxpedition is an “almost-indestructible” backpack that was originally designed for military and law enforcement professionals, so you can imagine how resistant and solid it is.''It can be an excellent companion if you want to take photos in the wild because it’s spacious enough to keep your camera and other belongings inside and it has a great water-resistant treatment that makes it an excellent bag to keep everything dry.''It features many exterior and interior pockets, sleeves and heavy-duty Velcro to hold a lot of gear. At the same time, it feels lightweight and very comfortable, as it has a padded strap and an extra padding system in the back. There is a side compartment to keep a small bottle of water and a hydration compartment, both of which are very helpful when you’re going outdoors. Most buyers reviewed this sling backpack as being solid, versatile and comfortable.''It’s made from 1000-denier coated nylon, which provides long durability while maintaining a great resistance-weight balance; it doesn’t feel heavy at all. If you like this model, you can find it in several colors, mainly brown, black, gray and green in a very military style.''UNDER ARMOUR COMPEL SLING 2.0 BACKPACK''Check price on Amazon''“Good option for carrying a laptop”''The''UA Compel''features an excellent water-resistant treatment yet maintains efficient breathability. Under Armor is a reliable brand and this product is an example of the company’s great work. It’s another popular choice among backpackers and outdoor lovers because it’s comfortable to wear and versatile. Thanks to its great design, you can carry heavy stuff and your shoulder won’t suffer much. It’s quite spacious, so you can hold many things inside it, including books, snacks and clothes.''One of the best features of this backpack is the lined space that gives you the opportunity to keep iPads or laptops up to 15 inches, even though some users said that 13 inches would be more realistic. It feels nice on the back and shoulder and the compartments are well placed to keep everything secured, creating a good balance when you are walking. Moreover, the straps are adjustable and well-padded to add extra comfort.''You’ll find two front zips for quick access to your belongings and a side water bottle pocket. Overall, it’s a great sling backpack for multiple purposes and would be a good choice for travel and hiking.''LEAPER CROSS BODY MESSENGER BAG''Check price on Amazon''“Vintage messenger bag”''The''Leaper Cross Body''is a bit different from the previous models. It’s what some people call a “messenger bag” and it presents a stylish retro design with high-quality materials and a great capacity. Actually, there are two sizes available, so you can fit a 10-inch tablet in the medium size and a 13-inch laptop in the large size. Most people love it because you can leave your heavy backpack in the hostel and explore the city with this daypack while looking nice.''It features a zipper pocket for the main compartment and many exterior pockets for easy access to your phone, snacks and other belongings. It’s multifunctional in that sense, since there are many pockets all around the backpack.''It’s made from soft, durable washed canvas with PU leather decoration but even though it feels very comfortable with medium loads, I wouldn’t recommend it if you are planning to carry many things in it. The padding on the shoulders and the back is not as comfortable as in other sling backpacks. It’s not waterproof, either, so I’d use for day trips, shopping or city walks but not for hiking or outdoor activities.''WATERFLY''Check price on Amazon''“Budget-friendly option”''The''Waterfly Sling Bag''is an excellent choice for those who prefer to not spend much money but who still want a pretty good sling pack. This budget-friendly backpack has some awesome features, like a special treatment which makes it water and snow resistant. If you like lightweight gear, it’s one of the lightest on the list, at only half a pound.''It has reflective lines, so you can see it in the dark, which is great if you’re cycling or hiking. The capacity is only 10 liters but that would be enough for short hikes and day trips. On the right side is a pocket for keeping a water bottle. You’ll find two zipper pockets on the front, a small pocket on the strap so you can fit a phone, and many interior pockets and sleeves for your credit cards, cigarettes, wallet and other things. You can fit an iPad without a problem, too.''Moreover, it’s a versatile bag thanks to its adjustable strap that can be worn on the shoulder you prefer. At the same time, keep in mind that it’s a pretty compact bag, so I wouldn’t overload it, as it’s going to be uncomfortable.''Keep in mind that it’s a budget option'', don’t expect the durability or resistance of any of the top models!''RED ROCK OUTDOOR GEAR ROVER''Check price on Amazon''“Budget option for military bags”''The''Red Rock Outdoor Gear Rover''is another ranger backpack for those who need super-resistant gear. This awesome outdoor backpack is probably the best value for the money in military designs. It’s durable and water-resistant and it features many compartments, pockets and sleeves. It’s a very popular option because you get a great backpack for a very reasonable price. Most buyers review it as an excellent choice.''It’s ambidextrous and there are four large compartments to keep all your belongings, like binoculars, a phone, books and other things. It’s a favorite option for many hunters and military personnel.''FOR PHOTO LOVERS:''ALTURA PHOTO CAMERA''Check price on Amazon''“Perfect for photographers”''If you like photography, as I do, you know how important and convenient it is to keep all your photo gear safe and protected from water and physical damage. The''Altura Photo Bag''will be a great companion for your next photo tours.''It’s perfect for adventure travel because it’s lightweight, well-organized, durable and water resistant, and it has interior compartments to keep several lenses – and, of course, your DSLR camera. There’s another compartment in which you can keep other belongings, like clothes, a wallet, etc., depending on the model. You can find different sizes with different designs. The price will also change.''A FEW THINGS TO CONSIDER BEFORE BUYING A SLING BACKPACK:''MATERIALS''Although most sling bags I’ve reviewed on this list are water resistant, none of them is really waterproof, which is a disappointment. In any event, all of them feature high-quality materials to resist physical damage and weather conditions.''SIZE''This is very important and depends on the activity you’ll be using it for. The backpack should be able to keep everything you need. If you are going to be taking a flight, you should be able to take it with you as hang baggage, having some extra space for keeping your camera and laptop if needed. Most models are compact, so they will meet airline regulations with no problem.''DESIGN AND FUNCTIONALITY''Besides the shape, size and colors, a well-designed backpack must be lightweight, durable, resistant and comfortable. At the same time, you might need extra compartments. Keep in mind whether you’ll be bringing a laptop or camera with you.''COMFORT''If you aren’t used to one-strap bags, it might feel a bit strange at first, but it should feel comfortable a few hours later. The bag shouldn’t prod your back or cause discomfort on your shoulders. You are going to carry it for hours, days or weeks! It must feel super comfortable!''I recommend that you chose a backpack with wide, padded, adjustable straps.''PRICE''Price is always one of the most important things to take into consideration when buying a product. Fortunately, a good sling backpack is not going to break the bank. If you buy a good one, it will last longer, so choose one you really like.''SLING BAGS vs BACKPACKS''As you know, the main difference is that backpacks have two straps, so they maintain a better distribution of weight and transfer it to your shoulders. Backpacks are recommended if you have any kind of back problem. They are also more convenient when you are carrying heavy stuff, as they help prevent back muscle pain. Check out''this article about back problems''.''I always recommend regular backpacks or hiking''backpacks for long-term travel''.''Sling bags, on the other hand, have just one strap. That might be a problem if you are carrying many things, but they are usually lightweight and compact, so they help you pack lighter. This way, you reduce the weight, avoiding back and neck problems.''Another advantage is that you can shift the''sling bag''in a matter of seconds and get quick access to your valuables. This is a''great advantage for avoiding pickpockets''in crowded areas.''ADVANTAGES OF SLING BACKPACKS''Lightweight''Compact''Gender neutral''Easy and quick access''Avoid pickpockets''Cool design''DISADVANTAGES:''Not comfortable with heavy weight''Not as roomy as regular backpacks''HOW TO AVOID BACK PAIN FROM SLING BACKPACKS''Carry five percent of your body weight (or less)''The recommended carrying weight for a regular backpack is around 10 to 15 percent. Sling bags have just one strap, so carrying that much weight could cause pain in the back, neck and shoulders.''Don’t carry more than five percent of your body weight.''Keep heavy stuff at the bottom.''This is important if you are carrying something heavy like a camera, a bottle of water, etc. By putting those items at the bottom, you help your back maintain a better curvature.''Change the position of the bag from time to time.''One of the main disadvantages is that they can’t distribute the weight as can double-strap backpacks. Therefore, one of the shoulders is receiving all the weight. To avoid that, change the position of the sling backpack; move it to the other shoulder or change it to the front side from time to time.''IS THIS WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR?''Although I use regular backpacks for most of my travels, I think there are many situations in which a sling backpack can be very helpful. I mean,''backpacks''are great, as you can keep a lot of things in them and they are very comfortable to wear, but sometimes you just want to carry something light and need easy access to it.''Some places, like museums and shops, don’t let you bring big backpacks, so you’ll have to pay to secure your belongings. On the other hand, when you are visiting a city and have left your backpack at the hostel, you might want to carry a few things for the day, like water, sunscreen, a camera, a map, etc.''That’s when''sling bags''come in handy. They work like daypacks, but you have easy and quick access to your valuables. How many photos did I miss taking off my backpack and finding my camera? By the time I had my camera ready, it was too late.''Of course, you can use them in your regular life, too. They have become very popular among students, as you can bring along books and other valuables. The big advantage of these backpacks is that there is only one strap, so they are easy to manage, turn and gain access to your stuff in just seconds.''That’s also a big advantage when you are on a crowded bus, train or market and you don’t feel comfortable, like somebody would try to steal something from you; just turn your sling backpack or''messenger bag''and have control of it.''So, whether you need a daypack for your travels, a bag to bring lunch to work or just a lightweight backpack to carry a few books, a good sling backpack will make your life easier!''CONCLUSION''As you have seen, there are many great models and it’s not easy to make a choice. I recommend that you get a backpack depending on what you want to use it for.''If you need it for day trips, I recommend the''Patagonia Atom''or the''Outdoormaster Packable''.''For military purposes, hiking and outdoor sports, the''Maxpedition Sitka''would be the best option. If you’re looking for a nice design, I’d go with the''Adidas Capital''.''Other traveles also liked:''Passport Holders''Travel Coffee Makers''Luggage Locks''Travel Drones''Have you enjoyed the Top 10 Sling Backpacks for Travel? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel''The Best Luggage Locks for Travel''Top 10 Passport Holders''Top 10 Best Travel Coffee Makers''If you liked this, please share it:''Most entry-level divers tend to rent equipment for the first few dives and also when they are traveling. However, once you get\xa0into scuba diving, having your own BCD is one of the best investment you can make.''There are many models with different features and it might be difficult to make the right decision. That’s why I’ve reviewed the Top Rated BCDs along with those I’ve tested myself, to create this''list of the Best BCDs''.''Check out''other gear reviews to find the''best dive computers'',''scuba wetsuits'',''full face masks''and''scuba fins''!''The 10 Best Scuba BCDs. Comparison''Scuba BCD''Style''Price''Editor Rating''Cressi Aquapro 5''Jacket''$''4.5''Cressi Ultralight''Back inflation''$$''4.7''Seac Sherpa''Hybrid''$$''4.8''Zeagle Ranger''Back inflation''$$$''4.8''Zeagle Stiletto''Back inflation''$$$''4.8''Sherwood Avid CQR3''Jacket''$''4.5''Mares Hybrid Pro Tec''Hybrid''$$''4.6''Zeagle Scout''Back inflation''$''4.2''Cressi Start Pro''Jacket''$''4.0''Zeagle Tech Deluxe''Back Inflation''$$''4.9''Top Rated Best BCDs for Scuba Diving, Review''CRESSI AQUAPRO 5''“Durable and affordable BCD for recreational divers”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Entry-level, intermediate divers''STYLE:''Jacket''MATERIAL:''420 Denier Laminated Nylon''WEIGHT:''2.8 kg – 6.2 lbs (M)''FEATURES:''Releasable weight pockets, lightweight, economic, comfortable''The''Cressi Aquapro 5''is a very functional and well-featured jacket BCD with a good\xa0price. It has rigid back support for good cylinder stability and is also very comfortable. It comes with two external wraparound weight pockets and lots of D rings for bringing along extra accesories.''CRESSI ULTRALIGHT''“One of the best BCDs for travelers”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Intermediate level, travel''STYLE:''Back inflation''MATERIAL:''420 Denier Laminated Nylon''WEIGHT:''2 kg – 4.6 lbs (M)''FEATURES:''Comfortable straps, super lightweight, super compact''The''Cressi Ultralight''features special anatomical shoulder straps with 40 mm buckles and a practical and comfortable back. It’s a lightweight BCD at only 2 kgs for the M size.''SEAC SHERPA''“Top-quality, comfortable hybrid BCD”''Check price on Amazon''USE'': Intermediate, advanced divers''STYLE:''Hybrid''MATERIAL:''420 Nylon''WEIGHT:''4.2 kg – 9.2 lbs (L)''FEATURES:''Comfortable padded back frame, solid, releasable weight system, not lightweight''The''Seac Sherpa''is a very durable, full-featured hybrid BCD. The padded backplate features extended lumbar support that transfers the tank weight onto the hips, relieving the stress on your shoulders.''ZEAGLE RANGER''“High-quality BCD for serious divers”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Advanced divers, technical divers''STYLE:''Back inflation''MATERIAL:''1050 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''3.8 kg – 8.4 lbs''FEATURES:''Resistant, durable, comfortable, great performance''The''Zeagle Ranger''combines high-quality, heavy-duty construction with weight integration and rear flotation. It is definitely one of the best BCDs on the market. Thanks to its modular construction, the Ranger can adapt to tropical water diving, rugged cold water diving in wet or dry suits, single or twin cylinders, and even technical diving. It is one of the most popular and recommended wing BCDs. Just keep in mind that is a bit heavier than other models. Maybe not the best option for travel.''ZEAGLE STILETTO''“High-quality and rugged”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Intermediate, advanced divers''STYLE:''Back inflation''MATERIAL:''1000 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''3.4 kg – 7.4 lbs''FEATURES:''Resistant, high quality, reasonable weight''The''Zeagle Stiletto''is another great wing BCD for both warm and cold waters. Unlike the Ranger, the Stiletto is not compatible with twin tanks, but it’s a light and rugged full-featured BCD with a more affordable price. It comes with two zippered utility pockets and five stainless D rings.''SHERWOOD AVID CQR 3''“Great performance and comfort”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''All levels''STYLE:''Jacket''MATERIAL:''1000 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''N/A''FEATURES:''Comfortable straps, good fit, good performance, affordable''The''Sherwood Avid''features a special adjustable shoulder strap system to give you a better fit, a 3D designed air cell that wraps around the body for exceptional stability and useful zippered side pockets.''MARES HYBRID PRO TEC''“Quality, amazing comfort and fit”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Intermediate, advanced diving''STYLE:''Hybrid''MATERIAL:''420 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''3.2 kg – 7 lbs''FEATURES:''Super comfortable, lightweight, lots of rings''The''Mares Hybrid Pro Tec''combines pre-shaped and reinforced\xa0shoulder pads with a super comfy lumbar suspension system. It’s a really versatile\xa0BCD that also comes with a modular weight integrated system.''ZEAGLE SCOUT''“Back inflate BCD perfect for travelers, good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''All levels, travel''STYLE:''Back inflation''MATERIAL:''1000 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''3 kg – 6.7 lbs''FEATURES:''Economic, good quality, resistant, lightweight''The''Zeagle Scout''is a great back inflate BCD with a reasonable price. It’s full-featured, durable, comfortable and ultralight.''CRESSI START PRO''“One of the best BCDs for entry-level divers”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Great for beginners''STYLE:''Jacket''MATERIAL:''500 and 1000 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''2.1 to 2.8 kg – 4.8 to 6.2 lbs''FEATURES:''Resistant, affordable, ultralight''The''Cressi Start Pro''is a simple, comfortable and practical jacket BCD. It features external weight pockets and two large pockets with Velcro closure. It’s a rugged and durable BCD perfect for beginners or entry-level divers.''ZEAGLE EXPRESS TECH DELUXE''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Intermediate, advanced scuba diving, traveling''STYLE:''Back inflation''MATERIAL:''1000 Denier Nylon''WEIGHT:''2.95 kg – 6.5 lbs''FEATURES:''Lightweight, packs up small, good quality, can use two cylinders''The''Zeagle Express Tech Deluxe''is a high-performance BCD available at a reasonable price. It’s light and compact, making it a great option for travelers or people who must move between dives. It features a back inflation system that feels very stable. Adding extra rings and pockets for extra accessories would be a good idea.''HOW TO CHOOSE THE BEST SCUBA BCD:''A BCD is an important part of your personal scuba gear. Therefore, you should choose it carefully. Take a look at the following considerations:''SIZE''Sizes may differ from one brand to another or from one model to another. Always use the manufacturer’s chart as a reference and you’ll get the right size.''INTEGRATED WEIGHT''Some BCDs have integrated weight pockets or the option to store weight in special removable pockets. Keep in mind that you still need to wear a weight belt in some cases to find your correct bouyancy.''LIFT REQUIREMENTS''The lift of the BCD represents the amount of negative weight the BCD can float. This shouldn’t replace proper weighting. There are several factors to consider. Some people are naturally more buoyant than others. A less buoyant person will need a larger lift capacity from their BCD. The type of water and the thickness of the wetsuit will also affect the buoyancy.''If you’re diving in cold water, you’ll need more lift than if you were diving in tropical water.''Remember that you should be correctly weighted before you dive.''TRAVEL''If you travel quite often, you’ll need light and compact gear. Some models fulfill these features while offering great resistance and comfort. Keep in mind that these models usually don’t offer as much lift capacity as other models (due to their compact size).''In general, they work well for travel and recreational dives in tropical waters. If you’re a technical or cold-water diver, travel BCDs may not be your best option.''BCD STYLES:''Jacket / Vest Style''This is the most common type of BCD for most divers. There are numerous models, but the idea is that the bladder inflates on the sides, the front and behind the diver. Most are equipped with pockets for storage or weight integration.''It’s the most popular option for recreational divers.''Back Inflation (Wings BCD)''Unlike the jacket BCD, the back inflation BCD or wings BCD inflates only the back side. This makes it easier for the diver to maintain a horizontal position. Most people also find them more comfortable to wear. On the other hand, it’s more difficult to keep a vertical orientation, like kneeling on the bottom if you are using this type of BCD.''Mainly used by intermediate and experienced divers.''Hybrid BCD''This is a combination of the BCDs mentioned above. This style of BCD helps you control bouyancy and keep yourself comfortable in both horizontal and vertical positions.''LADIES’ BCDs''BCDs for women have a reduced length of the torso, which makes it more comfortable to carry the cylinder. The chest straps are also removed to avoid constriction.''You’ll find most of the models available for men and women.''BUDGET''Even though it is a very important piece of your scuba gear, this won’t be the one that will break your bank. You can get a very good BCD\xa0starting from $200.''WHAT ARE THE PARTS OF THE BCD YOU SHOULD KNOW?''AIR BLADDERS''Air bladders are probably the most important part of a BCD. As you can imagine, bladders are designed to hold air. You can inflate or deflate them to achieve neutral buoyancy. The bladders can be located in the back of the BCD, at both sides of the jacket, or distributed along the jacket sides and back. (These are called hybrid models.)''INFLATORS''There are two types of inflators: manual and power.''Power inflators are connected to the tank via low pressure from the first stage. It’s a simple system. The air gets into the BCD when the built-in button is pressed; you can easily control the amount of air you let in.''The manual inflator lets you add air inside the BCD by blowing into a mouthpiece on the inflator hose.''DEFLATORS''As its name suggests, this simple mechanism allows the air to get out, helping you reduce your buoyancy. The deflate button is usually right next to the inflate button.''DUMP VALVES''In addition to the deflator, another system is available to remove air from the BCD. Most BCDs have several dump valves. The main one is located next to \u200b\u200bthe left shoulder.''You can also deflate your BC by pulling the inflator hose. For some people this is a little more comfortable and faster than using the deflator.''The other dump valve is located at the lower back of the BCD. It’s very useful when you must deflate your BC while diving in an inverted position (when you’re slightly or totally inclined with your head down).''STRAPS''All models are equipped with resistant straps that go around your torso to secure the jacket. In addition, they use buckles to provide the right fit.''POCKETS AND RINGS''Most jacket-style models feature several pockets and rings; however, not all models (like back-inflation BDCs) do this. Pockets are useful for storing your accessories or even for extra weight storage. Rings might also be useful for hooking a dive light, camera or other gear.''BEST BCD BRANDS''Hundreds of models are on the market. This year, Cressi, Seac, Zeagle, Sherwood and Mares are the ones that have stood out for their quality and performance. As you can see, they are world-renowned brands that have been offering great diving equipment for years.''I think Zeagle and Sherwood offer the best models on the list, though they tend to be more expensive and sometimes heavier. Cressi and Mares are well-known for providing great performance and durability at reasonable prices.''HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR BCD:''Before you dive:''– Check the inflator hose and valve connection to ensure there are no signs of damage, corrosion or cracking.''– Fully inflate your BC; let it sit for a few minutes and make sure it has no leaks.''– Have a look at the backplate, tank band and buckles.''After you dive:''– Soak the entire BC in fresh, clean water.''– Gently clean it; remove any debris or sand from the harness, pockets, etc.''– Press the manual inflator and fill the bladder half full. Blow some air and then shake it to wash the interior.''– Use the dump valves to drain all the water.''– Partially inflate the BC and let it dry in the sun.''– Store it in a dry place.''A FEW EXTRA THINGS TO CONSIDER:''A good BCD must have easy access to the pockets, the rings and the inflator that connects the regulator’s hose.''Choose a comfortable BCD. This selection is based on the feedback of real users. I have listed only those jackets with the best reviews and features, including comfort. Many models are equipped with extra padding to improve comfort in the lower back and shoulders.''Choose your jacket depending on the purpose. Some models are well suited for travel. They are compact, light and easy to carry. On the other hand, some models are designed specifically for technical divers. Back inflating jackets are usually used by experienced and pro divers.''Other divers were also interested in:''The Best Scuba Masks''The Best Dive Knives''The Best Scuba Regulators''The Best Diving Lights''A fantastic\xa0PADI beginners''guide to buying a BCD''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you enjoy The Best Scuba Diving BCDs. Ultimate Buying guide? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''Top 10 Best Dive Cameras Review 2018. Buyers Guide''Top 10 Best Scuba Diving Masks Review of 2018''Top 10 Best Dive Knives of 2018. Scuba Diving Revi...''If you liked this, please share it:''Now that you are getting into scuba diving, you know how important it is to have your own diving gear like a''scuba mask'',''BCD'',''dive computer''and''fins''to make you feel more comfortable and confident.''If you are looking to buy one of the best wetsuits out there, you have come to the right place. There are many models with various\xa0features and it might be complicated to make the right choice. I’ve reviewed the top rated divesuits, along with those I’ve tested myself, to create this list of''the best wetsuits for scuba diving''.''COMPARISON CHART''Wetsuit''Thickness''Price''Editor Rating''Body Glove Voyager''7 mm''$$$''4.5''Bare Velocity''5 mm''$$$''4.9''Waterproof Jumpsuit''3.5 mm''$$$''5.0'"O'Neill Heat 3Q"'3 mm - 4 mm''$$$''4.7''Hollis Semi-Dry''8/7/6 mm''$$$''4.8''Neosport Premium''5 mm''$$''4.4''Henderson Thermoprene''3 mm''$$''4.8''Pinnacle Venture''3 mm''$''4.9''U.S. Divers Shorty''2 mm''$''4.3''Cressi Playa''2.5 mm''$''4.2''Top 10 Best Wetsuits for Scuba Diving Review''BEST DIVE WETSUITS. TOP END''BODY GLOVE VOYAGER''“Comfortable and resistant wetsuit for cold temperature”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Very cold water''THICKNESS:''7mm''TYPE:''Full wetsuit''FEATURES:''Kneepads, good range of motion, durable''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Voyager 5mm''Check price on Amazon''The''Body Glove Voyager''is made of evoflex low-compression neoprene with thermolite insulation to keep divers warm.''It features flexible kneepads, an oversized lumbar panel for better forward mobility and high-density exterior print for increased resilience and protection in high-abrasion areas.''BARE VELOCITY''“Durable, easy to put on and take off”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Cold water''THICKNESS:''5mm''TYPE:''Full wetsuit''FEATURES:''Tight seal, good fit, stretchable, adjustable Velcro collar, easy to wear''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Velocity 5mm''Check price on Amazon''The''Bare Velocity''provides a great fit, comfort and mobility.\xa0It features an adjustable Velcro collar, zippered ankles to provide a tight seal, and knee pads for greater durability. You can find it in different thicknesses. The Bare Velocity is one of the most popular diving suits.''WATERPROOF JUMPSUIT''“Quality, comfort and design”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Warm to mildly cold water''THICKNESS:''3.5mm''TYPE:''Full''FEATURES:''Good protection, good material, comfortable to wear, relief zippers in the neck''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Waterproof 3.5mm''Check price on Amazon''The''Waterproof Jumpsuit''has a stunning anatomical, gender-specific design (the same model is also avalaible for women), and a fully Gusset neck zipper that relieves neck stress when on the surface.''The wrists and ankles are equipped with double neoprene seals with zippers for easier donning and doffing.''O’NEILL HEAT 3Q''“Great overall performance”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Warm and cold water''THICKNESS:''3mm and 4mm''TYPE:''Full wetsuit''FEATURES:''Awesome mobility, comfortable to wear, chest and back panels, great wrist seals''WOMEN’S VERSION:''O´Neill D-Lux 3/2''Check price on Amazon''The''O’Neill Heat 3Q''is made of UltraFlex DS neoprene with UltraFlex Firewall chest and back panels, which make for a super stretchy diving suit, that is easy to put on and take off and that is very comfortable underwater.''This is a 4/3mm wetsuit, which means it is made of two different thicknesses of neoprene. The 4mm covers most of the torso and arms, while the 3mm covers the legs. This system helps keep your body warm and provides more mobility for the legs.''HOLLIS NEO TEK SEMI-DRY''“Great semi-dry wetsuit”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Very cold water''THICKNESS:''8/7/6 mm''TYPE:''Full wetsuit with hood''FEATURES:''Arms and legs are sealed, hood, great seams, pockets''WOMEN’S VERSION:''N/A''Check price on Amazon''The''Hollis Neo Tek Semi-Dry''offers great isolation for those diving in cold water. It provides double-glued seams for maximum protection against water intrusion. It’s constructed from compression-resistant 8/7/6 mm neoprene and the exclusive “ThermaSkin” inner liner. It comes with two useful pockets if you want to bring extra accessories.''Besides its solid appearance, it is very comfortable to wear.''BEST DIVING SUITS. MID RANGE''NEOSPORT PREMIUM''“Good quality and value for the money”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Warm and cold water''THICKNESS:''5mm''TYPE:''Full wetsuit''FEATURES:''Great for several water sports, good flexibility, glued sewed seams, knee pads''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Neosport Premium 5mm''Check price on Amazon''The''Neosport Premium''is made of high quality neoprene for\xa0flexibility and resistance.''It’s suitable for both warm (for those sensitive to the cold) and cold water. This proven jumpsuit design has an adjustable collar that inhibits water exchange at the neck.''HENDERSON THERMOPRENE''“Super comfort and mobility”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Tropical diving''THICKNESS:''3mm''TYPE:''Shorty''FEATURES:''Easy to wear and take off, front zipper, super stretchable, blind-stitched seams, many sizes available''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Henderson 3mm''Check price on Amazon''The''Henderson Thermoprene''has 75% more strech than standard neoprene, which makes it really comfortable to wear.''It’s one of the easiest wetsuits to put on and take off thanks to its front zip, and it comes in a great range of sizes. It’s one of the best diving suits for tropical waters.''BEST BUDGET WETSUITS FOR DIVING''PINNACLE VENTURE''“Good value for the money”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Warm and tropical water''THICKNESS:''3mm''TYPE:''Full wetsuit''FEATURES:''Flexible, lightweight, comfortable, designed for many water sports, resistant neoprene''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Pinnacle Venture 3mm''Check the price on Amazon''The''Pinnacle Venture''is a highly flexible and lightweight scuba wetsuit that’s perfect for diving in warm water. It’s made from titanium-lined neoprene throughout the suit, providing maximum flexibility.''U.S. DIVERS SHORTY''“Lightweight and comfortable”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Tropical diving''THICKNESS:''2 mm''TYPE:''Shorty''FEATURES:''Good for travel, lightweight, good sealing, affordable price''WOMEN’S VERSION:''U.S. Divers 2mm''Check price on Amazon''The''U.S. Divers Shorty''is an ultralight diving suit ideal for diving in warm tropical water.''It’s very easy to put on and take off, and it comes with a neoskin design for better sealing on the arms and legs, guaranteeing maximum thermal retention.''CRESSI PLAYA''“Comfortable and affordable wetsuit for tropical travelers”''RECOMMENDED FOR:''Tropical diving''THICKNESS:''2.5mm''TYPE:''Shorty''FEATURES:''Front zipper, easy to take on and off, flexible neoprene, good budget option''WOMEN’S VERSION:''Cressi Playa 2.5mm''Check the price on Amazon''The''Cressi Playa''features a front zip which allows you to take the divesuit on and off in just a few seconds.''It’ s made of elastic ultraspan neoprene with special sealing on the arms and legs to keep you warm. This is a great ultralight diving suit for travelers on tropical vacations.''A few things to consider when choosing\xa0the best scuba diving wetsuit:''TYPES OF WETSUITS''SHORTY OR FULL WETSUIT?''A full wetsuit''covers your entire body, including arms and legs up to wrists and ankles, keeping you much warmer.''Full wetsuits are usually made in 4mm, 5mm and 7mm thicknesses. These suits are used for diving in very cold waters. For example, the 7mm thickness is recommended for diving in waters below 15° C. Some models are equipped with a hood for extra protection.''Shorty dive wetsuits''have short sleeves and cover your legs up to your knees. They are popular for diving in warm tropical water. However, some people are more sensitive to cold water and therefore might need a different thickness or type of wetsuit. I’ve seen many divers using full wetsuits in tropical waters because they don’t like to feel any cold after a long dive. It’s a personal choice.\xa0They are also very easy to put on and take off.''LONG JOHN WETSUITS''Long John wetsuits work well for any water sport in which you need free movement in the upper body. Although they provide full leg protection, they don’t cover the shoulders, thereby providing a full range of motion. You can use this type of wetsuit for scuba diving. However, it isn’t the most recommended option. Long john wetsuits are popular for swimming, kayaking, surfing and other water sports.''DRY SUITS''As the name suggests, dry suits manage to maintain total isolation. This way, the water has no direct contact with the body. These suits are recommended for diving in waters below 10° C or for very deep dives.''This type of suit contains valves that introduce or eliminate air between the wetsuit and your body, keeping you dry and warm. On the other hand, these suits are quite expensive and require experience to use safely, as they make controlling buoyancy difficult. If you need a dry suit, I recommend that you take a specialized course to learn how to wear it properly.''MATERIAL AND CONSTRUCTION''Scuba wetsuits are made of foamed neoprene, a stretchy, synthetic rubber material which has thousands of tiny bubbles providing thermal insolation, abrasion resistance and buoyancy.''Of course, there are different types of neoprene, and that will affect the quality and price of your scuba diving wetsuit. The main types are:''LYCRA WETSUITS''Lycra wetsuits are a good option for warm tropical waters in which you need minimal protection against the cold. They are popular for snorkeling because you’ll be swimming. Thus, you’ll keep your body warm. They also protect you against jellyfish, the sun and coral.''I’m not a big fan of Lycra wetsuits for scuba diving, even in tropical waters, as you can feel some cold after 30 or 40 minutes underwater. Remember that you barely move your upper body when diving, and you can get cold easily.''CLOSED-CELL NEOPRENE WETSUITS''Closed-cell neoprene wetsuits are a common option among divers. Because of the structure of the cells, they don’t offer as much isolation as open-cell suits do. They are usually affordable, but also tend to be more rigid and not as comfortable as open-cell wetsuits.''OPEN-CELL NEOPRENE WETSUITS''This type of wetsuit offers the best performance. It is comfortable to wear and take off, and offers great isolation while providing a better range of movement.''On the downside, it tends to be more expensive and more prone to damage if you don’t take proper care of it.''THICKNESS''The neoprene of divesuits comes in different thicknesses from 2mm to 7mm. If you are usually diving in warm tropical waters, 3mm is a good thicknes. If you are a cold water diver, think about getting a 5mm or 7mm dive wetsuit.''Have a look at the next recommendations:''– 2mm: Tropical waters above 85 F (29 C)''– 3mm: Water between 70-85 F (21-29 C)''– 5mm: Water between 60-70 F (15-21 C)''– 7mm: Water between 50-60 F (10-15 C)''This is just a recomendation and depends on the person. Personally, I hate feeling cold when I’m diving, so I take that into consideration. I use a 3mm dive wetsuit in tropical waters above 85 F.''STICHING CONSTRUCTION:''OVERLOCK STITCH''The overlock stitch system is the most basic option. It’s stitched on the inside and doesn’t provide the best protection. This type of stitch is used in some suits designed for tropical water, as water might get into the wetsuit through the seams.''FLATLOCK STITCH''This system usually overlaps two pieces of material and sews them together, creating several rows of stitching and creating a strong, durable seam. The flatlock stitch is usually cheaper to create than a blind stitch while providing great stretch to the wetsuit. It feels comfortable against the skin and provides pretty good isolation. However, keep in mind that it allows some water to seep into the wetsuit.''The system is used primarily on 3mm thick (or less) suits for warm tropical water.''BLIND STITCH''Blind-stitched seams are found in suits designed for cold water – usually 4mm suits and thicker. The main difference is that they don’t allow water to seep into the seams. Several coats of glue protect the seam, making it waterproof. Moreover, the sewing is done in a manner that holds the seams together. Therefore, these seams are the strongest option and offer the best isolation against the cold, with the exception of dry suits.''FRONT ZIPPER OR BACK ZIPPER?''Front zippers are common on short wetsuits. They are easy to use, as you can reach them yourself. Therefore, you won’t need anyone’s help to put on or take off your suit. On the downside, because the zippers are located on the front, they experience more movement and stretching. This means they tend to be less durable than back zippers.''Back zippers tend to last longer. Also, many divers feel as though these zippers provide a better and more comfortable fit.''SIZE''It’s very important to choose the right size for your dive wetsuit so that you will stay\xa0comfortable and warm. It must not be too big because some water could leak in (losing isolation), and it must not be so small that you have trouble breathing.''Most manufacturers have different size charts, so keep this in mind and before ordering.''If it’s the first time you are wearing one, you might feel that it’s too tight and think that you got the wrong size, but keep in mind that it is normal to feel that it is quite snug on you.''A snug-fitting suit will take in less water. The more water the suit lets in, the longer it will take to warm up the water, and the more heat your body will lose. Most of the water will seep in through the neck, wrists and ankles. Therefore, be sure to get the right fit on those parts of the suit.''Keep in mind that what may seem really tight when dry can became much more comfortable once you get underwater.''HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR WETSUIT''All scuba diving gear needs proper care. These tips will extend the life of your suit:''1- Once you’re out of the water, soak your suit with cool, fresh water. There are special soaps for this purpose; they prevent the neoprene from taking on an undesirable smell. Soak the suit for about 20 or 30 minutes, then turn it inside out and soak it for another 20 minutes.''2- Use a toothbrush to rub certain parts, like the zippers and Velcro patches. Move the zipper up and down to get rid of any sand or dirt.''3- Examine the suit after every dive. Pay special attention to the seams and zippers and ensure that everything works properly.''4- Hang the suit in a dry place out of the sun. Turn it inside out from time to time to ensure that both sides are perfectly dry. This is important for extending the life of the neoprene.''5- Store the suit on a hanger in a dry place and avoid direct contact with the sun.''IS MY WETSUIT GETTING SMALLER?''All wetsuits lose elasticity over the years and can shrink a bit as the neoprene cells\xa0collapse. This doesn’t mean you should buy a bigger size so that the suit will last longer. You should buy a high-quality wetsuit; it will be more elastic and will last longer.''WETSUITS FOR LADIES''Most of the models I´ve reviewed here are also available for ladies.''Other divers were also interested in:''The Best Snorkel Gear''The Best Diving Knives''The Best Scuba Lights''The Best Scuba Diving Cameras''The Best Dive Regulators''The Best Scuba Equipment List''Enjoy this PADI article:''7 tips for putting on your wetsuit''Would you pin it?''Did you enjoy The Top 10 Best Wetsuits Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best snorkeling gear Review 2018. How to Choose th...''Top 10 Best Scuba Regulators Review 2018. Buying G...''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''Full Face Snorkeling Masks 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''When you are taking part in\xa0outdoor sports like running, hiking, and climbing, or even if you are backpacking, you need to protect your eyes from ultaviolet rays and other hazards, like strong winds or small insects that can be very annoying.''Are you looking for the''best\xa0hiking sunglasses''? We need to focus on polarized sunglasses that block UVA and UVB. At the same time, the glasses must be comfortable as well as rugged and durable, not to mention ready\xa0to protect you from dust and flying debris.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best hiking watches'',''climbing ropes'', and''GPS for hiking''!''OUR LIST:''Oakley Radarlock Path''Julbo Trek Polarized''Oakley Half Jacket''Julbo Bivouak''Smith Optics Pivlock V2''Julbo Vermont Classic''Spy Optics Cutter Mate''Duduma Polarized''Openroad Sports''Menton Ezil Aviator''COMPARISON:''Model''Polarized''Price''Editor Rating''Oakley Radarlock Path''Yes''$$$''4.7''Julbo Trek''Yes''$$$''4.2''Oakley Half Jacket 2.0''Yes''$$$''4.7''Julbo Bivouak''Yes''$$$''4.6''Smith Optics Pivlock V2''No''$$''4.7''Julbo Vermont Classic''No''$$$''4.6''Spy Optics Cutter Matte''Yes''$$''4.0''Duduam Polarized''Yes''$''4.4''Openroad Sports''No''$''4.5''Menton Ezil Aviator''Yes''$''4.8''Today I’m going to review the''Best Hiking Sunglasses''so that you can find the one that best fits your needs!''REVIEW 2018''THE BEST OUTDOOR SUNGLASSES. TOP END''OAKLEY RADARLOCK PATH''Check price on Amazon''USE:''Hiking, running, cycling, winter sports''POLARIZED:''Yes''PROS:''Great performance, interchangeable lenses''CONS:''Expensive''The''Oakley Radarlock''features resistant polycarbonate lenses in a modern design. These sunglasses are perfect for any outdoor sport because they are really lightweight, durable, comfortable and flexible.''Hiking lovers can now enjoy the ultimate technology on their routes thanks to these new and modern watches.''More technologically advanced, these practical watches help us on our hiking trails with an altimeter, a barometer, a compass,''GPS''and many other features. They let us determine our average speed, the number of calories we have burned or the distance we have left until we reach our destinations. Built with modern and contemporary designs, these watches can be used not only by hikers, but also by backpackers, travelers or any outdoors lovers.''I’m going to review the''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches''of the year so that you can see what’s new, the differences between them, their features and their designs.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best outdoor watches'',''best tactical watches'', and''GPS for hiking''!''OUR LIST:''Garmin Fenix 5''Garmin Tactix Bravo''Suunto Spartan''Suunto Ambit 3''Suunto Traverse''Casio PRW 2500T-7CR''Casio Pathfinder PAG240-7CR''Suunto Core Crush''Casio PRW6000-1ACR''Garmin Epix''COMPARISON CHART''Photo''Hiking Watch''Weight (ounces)''Water Resistance (meters)''GPS''Price''Garmin Fenix 5''3.0''100''Yes''$$$''Garmin Tactix Bravo''3.2''100''Yes''$$$''Suunto Spartan''2.58''100''Yes''$$$''Suunto Ambit 3 Peak''3.1''100''Yes''$$''Suunto Traverse''2.8''100''Yes''$$''Casio PRW 2500T-7CR''2.85''200''No''$$''Casio Pathfinder PAG240-7CR''2.8''100''No''$''Suunto Core Crush''2.9''30''No''$$''Casio PRW6000Y''2.6''100''No''$$''Garmin Epix''2.9''50''Yes''$$$''Top 10 Best ABC Smartwatches for Hiking, Review 2018''GARMIN FENIX 5''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Multi-sport''GPS:''Yes''ABC:''Altimeter, barometer, compass''FEATURES:''Rechargeable battery, thermometer, Chroma display, Wi-Fi, heart rate monitor, calorie and step counter, 100-meter water resistance''PROS:''Has virtually all the functions you’ll need''CONS:''Expensive''The''Garmin Fenix 5''is definitely one of the best GPS watches you can find on the market. It’s not a toy you’d buy for your kids. This is a watch for serious hikers!''This high-tech watch has absolutely all the outdoor navigation features you’ll need on your routes, including a three-axis compass, GPS, altimeter, barometer, rechargeable battery, WIFI software, sunlight readable color Chroma display, high-strength domed sapphire lens, connect IQ compatibility for customized apps, widgets that show the\xa0progress of your workout, watch faces, and many more.''Besides being fully equipped with technology, the Garmin Fenix 5 has a sophisticated and stylish design. This watch is suitable for hiking, running, swim training, skiing and other outdoor activities.''Probably the best hiking watch of the year!''You can get the''Garmin Fenix 3''now for a great price!''GARMIN TACTIX BRAVO''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Trekking, military, hunting''GPS:''Yes''ABC:''Altimeter, barometer, compass''FEATURES:''Wi-Fi, non-reflective design, rechargeable batteries, simultaneously shows two sets of coordinate systems on one screen''PROS:''Resistant; can be used for many activities''CONS:''Expensive''Garmin Tactix Bravo''. A great\xa0outdoor watch for adventure lovers. Based on the Garmin Fenix 3, this amazing watch comes with some extra tactical features.''This multifunction training watch combines tactical functionality with some smart features for hiking and activity tracking, all in a stylish design. The Garmin Tactix Bravo features an all-black, non-reflective and resistant design built for the tactical environment. Its dual-mode operation optimizes the sunlight-readable display for daily use or night vision goggle compatibility.''It comes with all Fenix 3 features like: three-axis compass, GPS, altimeter, barometer, rechargeable battery, WIFI software, sunlight-readable color Chroma display, high-strength domed sapphire lens and more. On this version, not only the sapphire lens but the bezel is scratch resistant, making it a very durable watch.''For a few more bucks\xa0more you get the sapphire lens and scratch resistant bezel in black!''SUUNTO SPARTAN SPORT WRIST BARO''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Multi-sport, hiking''GPS:''Yes''ABC:''Barometer, altimeter, compass''FEATURES:''Heart rate monitor, calorie and step counter, thermometer, good design, touch screen, Bluetooth''PROS:''Resistant; has many features; energy saving setting''CONS:''Expensive''Suunto Spartan''. After the success of the Garmin 5, it seems that Suunto didn’t want to be left behind and it has finally presented its flagship watch. This ABC watch has a sophisticated, elegant and even futuristic design.''It features a beautiful steel bezel for extra strength and a minimalist touch-screen for easy use. If you’re wearing gloves, don’t worry: it includes side buttons to access all the menu controls.''The GPS system is fantastic. I think it’s the most graphic and easy-to-read of all the models, with the exception of the Garmin Epix. You can use the Suunto Movescount app to prepare your hiking routes.\xa0There are three options; you can create them from scratch, from existing routes or by importing existing trails as GPS files.''In addition, it features an altimeter, a barometer, a thermometer and a three-axis compass. Because it’s designed not only for trekking but for a wide variety of sports, it offers a complete overview of your activities: traveled distance, duration of workout, burned calories, heart rate, etc. As you can see, it’s one of the most complete smartwatches of the year!''SUUNTO AMBIT 3 PEAK GPS HT MONITOR''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Hiking, running, swimming''GPS:''Yes''ABC:''Compass, barometer, altimeter''FEATURES:''Calorie counter, heart rate, solid design, thermometer, storm alarm''PROS:''Reasonable price; good features; good batteries''CONS:''Display isn’t sophisticated''Suunto Ambit 3 Peak''. One of the best outdoor watches with heart rate monitor. This multi-sport GPS watch helps you track your progress while you are hiking, running or swimming.''It measures time and tracks distance walked, altitude, temperature, pressure, heart rate and respiratory rate. It comes with other features like: GPS, digital compass, storm alarm and barometer, and can receive push notifications from your smartphone.''It features an easy-to-understand GPS navigation system that allows you to use its route maps while hiking. You can access the Movescount Suunto Application, which tracks all your hikes and stores them in an online cloud so that you get an overview of your routes.''The watch comes with a rate belt that uses a Suunto application to monitor you heart rate and calculate the number of calories burned. This watch is compatible with Bluetooth, so it will also show your messages, missed calls and other notifications.''This is definitely one of the best watches you can find with a very good quality-to-price ratio.''SUUNTO TRAVERSE''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Hiking, hunting, fishing''GPS:''Yes''ABC:''Barometer, altimeter, compass''FEATURES:''Storm alarm, monitors several activities, provides information about sunrise and sunset''PROS:''100 hours of battery; good features''CONS:''Display is quite simple''Suunto Traverse''. The best trekking watch for long routes. Its very stylish design and ultimate features make the Suunto Traverse a great hiking watch.''It has most of the Suunto Ambit 3 features like: GPS, altimeter, barometer, thermometer and digital compass, and some extra features like: vibration alerts, flashlight backlight and activity monitoring, which estimates daily steps and calories. On the downside, it doesn’t support advanced training analysis and multisport mode.''You can synchronize the watch with your smartphone via Bluetooth to access all the information from there, and it comes with a Movescount Application that allows you to import your routes and data.''A great GPS watch with all the key features, including GPS, and a very attractive design.''CASIO PRW 2500T-7CR''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Everyday use, hiking''GPS:''No''ABC:''Compass, altimeter, barometer''CHARACTERISTICS:''200-meter water resistance, moon calendar, thermometer''PROS:''Nice design; rechargeable solar battery''CONS:''No GPS''The''Casio PRW 2500T-CR''has a beautiful traditional design suitable for any occasion.''The watch’s main features are: digital compass, 200M water resistance, moon data, altimeter, altimeter memory, barometer and thermometer. Features like a barometer and thermometer will help you determine what weather will greet you during your hikes.''The battery is recharged by a solar panel built into the face of the watch, so you won’t need to change batteries anymore. Furthermore, the watch displays five daily alarms, world time, a countdown timer, a battery level indicator and many other features.''This is one of the best Casio watches you can find for a reasonable price. It is a very practical tool you should bring to your hikes or simply wear everyday due to its beautiful design.''Unfortunately, it has neither GPS nor a heart rate monitor.''CASIO PATHFINDER PAG 240-7CR''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Trekking, outdoor activities''GPS:''No''ABC:''Barometer, compass, altimeter''CHARACTERISTICS:''Low temperature resistance, several alarms, 100-meter water resistance, thermometer''PROS:''Good price''CONS:''No GPS''Casio PAG240-7CR''. This is another great model with one of the most beautiful designs on the list.''It has a round stainless steel case with a mineral dial window and a strong titanium bracelet with double-locking fold-over clasp.''It comes with all Casio main features like: 100M water resistance, low temperature resistance, world time, daily alarms and, of course, an altimeter, barometer, thermometer and digital compass.''SUUNTO CORE CRUSH''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Trekking, hunting, fishing''GPS:''No''ABC:''Yes''CHARACTERISTICS:''30-meter water resistance, notifies you of weather conditions, thermometer''PROS:''Price''CONS:''No GPS''Suunto Core Crush''. Another good watch you can find for a reasonable price. The Suunto Core Crush doesn’t have GPS like some other Suunto models do, and it is, let’s say, simpler.''However, it does come with features like: 30M water resistance, altimeter, barometer, thermometer and compass. This watch’s barometer is especially great, as it has a trend graph that will let you know what weather is coming. The watch detects possible storms and the alarm goes on. Isn’t that cool?''This is the best option for those who want a good hiking watch with almost all the features, except GPS, but who don’t want to spend much money.''CASIO PRW 6000Y-1ACR PRO''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Outdoor sports''GPS:''No''ABC:''Yes''FEATURES:''LED light, 100-meter water resistance, stopwatch, thermometer''PROS:''Solar battery; good functions, design''CONS:''No GPS''Casio PRW6000Y – 1ACR''. The best hiking watch with an elegant\xa0design. This is a beautiful black sport watch featuring a multi-function dial with analog and digital displays.''It features a triple sensor altimeter, digital compass, barometer, thermometer, world time (29 cities), five daily alarms, LED light, 100M water resistance, 1/100-second stopwatch, power-saving function and countdown timer. The battery is recharged by a solar panel.''It’s a beautiful option for those looking for a stylish and attractive hiking watch with all the main features, except GPS.''GARMIN EPIX''Check price on Amazon''SPORTS:''Adventure, multi-sport, hiking''GPS:''Yes''ABC:''Yes''FEATURES:''Touch-screen, very practical and easy-to-follow GPS''PROS:''Best map on the list''CONS:''Design might be too retro''Garmin Epix''.\xa0The best hiking watch with a real GPS system. This watch has a very different and practical design. It’s definitely not as stylish and attractive as some of the watches mentioned above, but it’s probably the most feature-filled watch you’ll find on the market.''It has a 1.4-inch high-resolution touchscreen, 8 GB of expanded internal memory, connecting applications, a multi-activity option for hiking, running, navigation, swimming, indoor workouts, and more.''The main difference and advantage is the touchscreen which displays real GPS mapping. It’s equipped with all the features like step counter, activity tracking, altimeter, barometer, thermometer, digital compass and more.''This is a practical option for those looking for a good GPS integrated watch with a real mapping system.''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Considerations to take into account when choosing the Best Trekking\xa0Watches:''FEATURES''A wide variety of watches are available on the market. Therefore, it’s important to know exactly what you’re looking for. For hiking lovers, an easy-to-read GPS and a large and easy-to-use display are must-have features.''There are apps from which you can download maps of the area where you’re planning to hike, as well as routes created by other people. Devices equipped with a storm alarm can be very helpful, too. They warn us when the weather is likely to get a bit ugly.''If you need a watch designed for running and fitness, look for other features. In this case, take a look at models that monitor heart rate, steps, traveled distances and burned calories. Most of them allow you to download all the data to fully track your activities and evolution.''For hunters and fishermen, some models show useful information about sunrise and sunset times, tides, fishing and hunting calendars, moon phases, etc. They tend to be especially resistant to harsh weather conditions and possible impacts.''The main features are:''GPS''Possibly, the most important function of all, a GPS helps us locate our situation, making it easier to explore unknown mountains. GPS is based on information received from several satellites. These satellites are synchronized with each other and constantly inform us about their exact position. They act as reference points for land navigation. The GPS receiver detects and processes the signals from the satellites to show us all the information on a map.''The main disadvantage of built-in GPS watches is the duration of their batteries because this system consumes a lot of energy. In some cases, the battery life is only a few hours. Fortunately, these models include rechargeable batteries.''Keep in mind that GPSs may fail. For example, if you’re walking through deep canyons or thick forests, the GPS might not get the signal properly and may therefore provide inaccurate information.''ALTIMETER''Altimeters work in a different way. They use a pressure sensor that measures the actual atmospheric pressure. In this way, they create an approximate calculation of the height in relation to that atmospheric pressure. These height measurements are made according to ISA (International Standard Atmosphere) values. In most models, you can download the route information.''BAROMETER''The barometer helps us understand what weather is coming. It measures the atmospheric pressure and indicates climatic trends. The higher we climb, the lower the barometric pressure. When the atmospheric pressure increases, the weather will likely improve. When the pressure decreases, you should put on your raincoat.''COMPASS''A compass includes a sensor that uses the earth’s magnetic field to indicate direction with great accuracy. Most models include a three-axis digital compass, although some models (not included in the list) incorporate a real compass attached to the strap.''THERMOMETER''A thermometer can be useful in some circumstances. It helps us anticipate the weather ahead. Most models can measure in a range of -10º C to 60º C.''HEART RATE MONITOR''Some models include a heart rate monitor. Most new models feature wrist-based heart rate monitors. However, in some cases you must use a chest strap transmitter. They offer valuable information for tracking your fitness activities.''WATERPROOF''Obviously, all trekking watches are water-resistant. The only difference is the depth they can resist; most are designed to resist 100 meters.''DURABILITY''As we would with any hiking gear, we’ll focus on quality and durability. These watches are specially adapted to potential hiking-related situations such as scratches, impacts, extreme temperatures and water.''CONCLUSION:''All the watches mentioned above are great mountaineering watches that you can find on the market this year.''If you are willing to spend some money, I’d recommend that you get the''Garmin Fenix 5''for a nice design and best features.''Another amazing watch is the''Suunto Spartan'', which comes with all the best and more modern features.''If you are not that interested in having GPS but still want the most attractive and stylish design, the''Casio PRW 2500T-7CR''might be your watch.''A few tips for enjoying your ABC Hiking Watch:''– New models come with so many features and apps that you can be overwhelmed at first sight. Take the time to read the instructions and play with your new toy.''– Some watches are recharged by a solar panel. If they run by regular batteries, be sure your hiking watch is fully charged before you explore the mountains.''– Most manufacturers want to keep their models up to date, so they release new apps and software. Check that you have installed the latest firmware on your watch.''– Have a plan B. These watches include the latest technology and they are all great. However, you can’t rely on only the watch’s GPS when hiking. This doesn’t happen often, but you may find that the satellite doesn’t work in certain “dead zones.” Always bring along a good map with your watch.''– Import the tracking data of your routes to your computer or phone and check your progress.''A personal story''A few years ago I was hiking the''Huayhuash trek''in Peru. Absolutely spectacular place. At that time I didn’t have a GPS, so we were using a map. That’s also cool. I mean, I like to read maps and it’s kind of adventurous, but this was a 10-day trek. One day it was snowing pretty hard and the snow covered the path. We tried to follow the right trail but we got lost. We ended up on a steep hill; it was really cold and we couldn’t pitch our tent. It wasn’t fun. After that day, I thought, ‘I want a hiking watch with GPS for my next hike!’''Would you pin it? Thanks''Other hikers also liked'':''Tents for Camping''Lightweight Sleeping Bags''Climbing Ropes''Backpacking Pillows''Sleeping pads for Travel''Hammocks for Backpacking''Travel Backpacks''Filtered Water Bottles''Have you enjoyed\xa0the Top 10 Best Hiking Watches Review? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Sunglasses for Hiking and Outdoor Spor...''Top 10 Best GPS for Hiking, Review 2018''Tactical Watches for Military Use Review''Top 10 Best Outdoor Watches 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''I have to admit that Kathmandu is one of the cities that surprised and delighted me like no other in all my travels. I arrived\xa0there after spending a few months in India, and I had seen a number of amazing things, but upon arriving in Kathmandu I fell in love with the city.''Here you will see how the Hindu essence mixes with Buddhism or other religions on every street. Temples, stupas, monuments, mosques and centuries-old cities create one of the most interesting cultural destinations in\xa0the world.''IMPORTANT NOTE:''This trip was made before the terrible''earthquake of 2015''that killed so many people. Many of these places were destroyed and some are still in reconstruction or are in ruins.''The best places to visit in Kathmandu''1. THAMEL NEIGHBORHOOD''The most popular district among backpackers and hikers is a lively place to meet people, buy maps and prepare your mountain route. Although strongly focused on tourism, the Thamel neighborhood retains a special charm amid the chaos of the city.''2. TEMPLE SETO MACHINDRANATH''This small temple of fine golden decoration attracts both Hindus and Buddhists for prayer. Located in the city center of Kathmandu, the temple of Seto Machindranath is surrounded by small stupas and statues, which create an area of great charm.''3. KATHMANDU DURBAN SQUARE''The most significant square in all Kathmandu is famous for its stunning Newari temples and palaces. Some of those buildings date from the 14th century and were originally built as part of a complex of royal ceremonies.''Today\xa0the square is a lively spot where locals mix with curious tourists.''Although part of the square was destroyed during the earthquake some of these buildings are still in good condition.''Entrance fee for tourists:''750 Rupees''4. BHAKTAPUR''The old town of Bhaktapur, located just a few kilometers from Kathmandu, is famous for the variety and height of its impressive temples.''The most famous is the five-story Nyatapola temple which\xa0reaches 30 meters high. The temple, dedicated to Siddhi Lakshmi and built in 1702, remains one of the highest in the Kathmandu valley after surviving the earthquake of 2015. Very interesting city, one of the best places to visit in Kathmandu!''Admission fee:''1,500 Rupees''5. BOUDHANATH STUPA''With a diameter of 120 meters, Boudhanath Stupa is the largest temple in Nepal and a very important site\xa0of pilgrimage for hundreds of Buddhists. Located just 7 kilometers from Kathmandu, the stupa was assigned UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1979.''This place has a pure Himalayan culture with a strong presence of Tibetans, Sherpas and Buddhist monks and nuns. It is the most sacred place for Tibetans outside Tibet.\xa0The area is surrounded by other monasteries, shops and restaurants of Tibetan culture.''Although slightly damaged during the earthquake, it seems to have been rebuilt successfully.''Admission fee:''250 Rupees''6. PATAN''Separated from Kathmandu by the Bagmati River, Patan is the second largest city in the valley. Patan Durbar Square is a spectacular place you cannot miss during your visit to Nepal. Even after the earthquake, the square boasts some of the finest palaces and temples around the country.''The most emblematic buildings are the Golden Temple (built around 1400), the octogonal Krishna temple (built in 1647) and the Shankar Narayan temple with two elephants at its\xa0entrance. One of the best places to visit in Kathmandu!''The famous Patan Museum exhibits bronze and copper statues of gods from\xa0both the Buddhist and Hindu traditions.''Admission fee:''500 Rupees''7. SWAYAMBHUNATH (Monkey Temple)''This complex originally consisted of a large stupa surrounded by several shrines and temples. Later, a Tibetan monastery, a museum and a library were added. Also a UNESCO World Heritage Site, Swayambhunath is the second-largest Stupa in Kathmandu after Boudhanath, as well as the perfect place to observe the amazing ceremonies and practices of the pilgrims.''The temple is built on the top of a hill and has\xa0a great view of Kathmandu. Beware of monkeys while climbing the access stairs because they can get really close if you are carrying\xa0food!''Although the complex was severely damaged during the earthquake of 2015, some of the buildings, including the main stupa, remain standing. I really liked this temple, definitely one of the best places to visit in Kathmandu!''Admission fee:''200 Rupees''8. BANDIPUR''If you are traveling to the city of Pokhara, why don’t you stop halfway to explore the charming village of Bandipur?''This small mountain village is a living museum of the Newari culture, with well-preserved streets and buildings. The local people will greet you with a smile and make you feel welcome as you stroll through the nearby hills.''9. TREKKING IN THE EVEREST AND LANGTANG REGIONS''Mountaineering has always been – and will always be – one of the biggest tourist attractions in Nepal. If you like hiking, the options are limitless. Kathmandu is the starting point for organizing expeditions to the Everest base camp or the Langtang region.''Pokhara, however, is famous for its routes to''the Annapurna Range''.''10. TRY LOCAL FOOD''Nepalese food is delicious. Find a restaurant with local people and try some of the specialties, like “Chatamari;” a kind of rice pancake (like a roti) served with meat or vegetables, “Choyla;” buffalo meat served as a spicy barbecue or “Momos;” a dough filled with meat or vegetables and spices.''PLAN YOUR TRIP TO NEPAL''ACCOMMODATION''I loved this place in Kathmandu:''Zen Bed and Breakfast.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Nepal. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you need a guidebook?''Get the''Lonely Planet Nepal''Next Read:''The best things to do in Pokhara''Do you have any question about Top 10 best places to visit in Kathmandu? Please, contact me!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es. There are other affiliate links in the post too.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''There are very few countries that truly represent the magic, taste and tradition of South America.''Peru has virtually all of it''; mountain hikes, waterfalls, rainforests bathed by the famous Amazon river, colonial cities, modern cities, deserts, volcanoes, lakes, ancient cultures, shamanism, mysticism, tradition and more. All of this, in just one country!!''On the other hand, you’ll find corruption within the political classes and exploitation of the tourism sector which has created a system where the tourist feels more like an object than a person. Rarely in my travels have people cheated me or ripped me off so many times. And I am not even your typical blonde hair, blue eyed gringo!!''Yes, it is true, taxi drivers, van drivers and some “cholitas” in the markets are going to rip you off time and time again, but in the end, the wonderful people I met and the things I learned from this charismatic country outweigh the scammers.''Long live Peru'', damn it!''Things to do and see. Backpacking in Peru''1. LIMA''Chaotic and messy, Lima is\xa0not exactly my favorite city in Latin America. However it is still a nice place to spend a few days to see''the modern part of the country''. As the locals of Lima say; Peru is not only highlands and jungle, it definitely has more to offer. The lovely “Barranco” neighborhood is worth a visit.''Barranco neighborhood in Lima. photo by''Christian Córdova''. flickr''2. CAJAMARCA AND “SALA DEL RESCATE”''Cajamarca is a''beautiful colonial town'', famous for the tragic event where the Spanish conquerer Francisco Pizarro killed Atahualpa, the last Inca Emperor. Atahualpa was captured and sentenced to death, but bribed his way out of it with an entire room of gold and silver.''The Incas joined forces and brought all the gold and silver (mainly from the current Bolivia) and filled the room as ransom. In the end, the Spanish didn’t stick to their word and murdered Atahualpa regardless.It was then I began to really understand the resentment that Peruvians have against the “Spanichen”.''Plaza de Armas in Cajamarca. photo by''Jorge Gobbi''. flickr''3. THE GOCTA FALLS''Considered the''third highest falls in the world''after the Angel Falls in Venezuela and Tugela Falls in South Africa,''the Gocta Falls''will certainly impress you, at 771 meters high. The environment is part of the charm. It is located in a beautiful area of jungle, canyons and rivers of rough water.''Amazing Gocta falls''4. IQUITOS BY BOAT''Prepare your backpack and your camera, buy a basic hammock and get to Yurimaguas to embark on a''3 day trip down the Amazon''. Arriving in Iquitos, you’ll see that it’s like another world. It is completely different from the rest of the country. We are now in''the Amazon''and if the heat hasn´t already, the humidity and mosquitoes will confirm that.''Find a good guide and visit the jungle, lagoons and the nearby villages. You will not regret it!''Views from the boat''City of Iquitos''Worms in Iquitos''5. HUARAZ, CORDILLERA BLANCA AND HUAYHUASH''As the mountain lover that I am, for me this is one of the most incredible areas throughout South America. It can only be compared with places like''El Chalten''in Argentina,''Torres del Paine''in Chile or Mount Roraima in Venezuela.''The Santa Cruz Hike''can be completed in four days, it’s not very difficult and has spectacular scenery. For those who are brave, I recommend''the Huayhuash Hike'', which can be completed between 9-11 days and will take you to the most beautiful spots of the region.''Flower market in Huaraz''Santa Cruz Hike''Huayhuash Hike''6. PARACAS AND THE BALLESTAS ISLANDS''Make your way to this arid coast to visit the Paracas National Park. Huge cliffs meet the sea and draw a beautiful landscape, where the ocher colors form a large desert.''Near the coast, the Ballestas Islands are''home to a wildlife sanctuary''. Cormorants, sea lions, seals and penguins inhabit these small islands that you can easily visit on a boat tour.''Coast of Paracas''Penguins in Ballestas islands''Sea lions in Ballestas islands''7. THE OASIS OF HUACACHINA''Located in the middle of a vast desert, the oasis of Huacachina is a nice place to spend a few days. They are known for their''famous Boogie trips'', which will put your adrenaline to its limit. The drivers of these racing cars are really crazy and will take you at full speed through the dunes of the great desert.''Huacachina''Another nearby Oasis''My fellow traveler, Jabi''8. THE CITY OF CUSCO''Cusco is a city with a special charm. The streets, churches and squares are amazing, and the fusion of Spanish architecture with strong''Indigenous tradition''creates a truly magical place. What´s more, it’s the gateway to the Sacred Valley and city of Machu Picchu, so you will not be short of things to do around here.''Plaza de Armas in Cusco''Church in Cusco''Streets of Cusco''9. THE SACRED VALLEY''Visit the different villages which make up the Sacred Valley, located in the Peruvian Andes and full of''archaeological monuments and Indigenous tradition.''I recommend visiting the towns of Ollantaytambo, Pisac and Urubamba to visit the craft fairs and take a walk around the mountains.''Near Pisac. Sacred Valley. photo by''Danielle Pereira''. flickr''10. THE MYTHICAL MACHU PICCHU''What can I say about''Machu Picchu''? Every traveler’s mecca, it is a place that certainly will not disappoint you. The magic of the place is overwhelming. The ruins are located on the top of a mountain which is surrounded by supernatural beauty.''Myself in Machu Picchu''11. LAKE TITICACA''Another scenery with''an extraordinary energy.''Although I visited it from the Bolivian side, the lake is just beautiful in every corner of its waters. From Puno you can visit the floating islands and meet their inhabitants who still retain their traditions and their Aymara language.''12. AREQUIPA AND THE COLCA CANYON''Arequipa, the second most populated city of Peru is a good place to base your visits to the nearby volcanoes and the''Colca Canyon'', famous for its huge ravines and Condors.''The great Condor''Budget for Backpacking in Peru. $ 20 / day''In general, you can travel the country for''less than $ 15 / day'', but if you dare to make a tour through the jungle or some hikes up the mountain, the budget can go up to 20 or 25 dollars per day.''PLAN YOUR TRIP TO PERU''ACCOMMODATION IN PERU''Most hostels will cost you''15-25 soles''for a single, double or dormitory. That’s about 5-7 dolares.''These are some options that I loved:''Lima:''Casa del Mochilero''. Nice, economic and well located in Miraflores.''Iquitos:''Flying Dog''. Clean, good atmosphere and a good kitchen.''Huaraz:''Casa de Ana B&B''. Amazing terrace on the top.''Paracas:''Backpackers House''. Great atmosphere, easy to make friends.''Huacachina:''Casa de Arena. Great swimming pool.''Cusco:''Kokopelli''. Without doubt, my favorite option in Cusco. Best vibes!''Aguas Calientes (Machu Picchu):''Mama Simona.''One of the best hostels in Aguas Calientes.''Arequipa:''La puerta del Sol''. Affordable, with a nice terrace.''AirBnb is another good option for couples and groups. You’ll find many rooms and apartments at great prices. Sign up through my link now, and you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good travel insurance if you are traveling to South America.''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options, offering good prices and great service.''FOOD AND DRINK''Peruvian food is one of South America´s most famous and even has worldwide prestige. As I was traveling as a backpacker I didn’t go to any of the best restaurants. Rather, I ate in small markets and street stalls, but was still able to find some delicious dishes.''Do not miss the''“fish ceviche” and “lomo saltado”.''Main dishes for''about 2-5 dollars.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''The best season is from March to November'', when there is not much rainfall.''July and August are the months with the best weather, but keep in mind that it is high season, so there are many tourists and everything gets more expensive.''From December to March the rains in the Amazon can be very strong.''TIPS FOR BACKPACKING IN PERU''Patience''As I mentioned earlier, people attempting to rip you off and abuse by some bus drivers are quite common. Personally, I lost control several times and even got into heavy arguments. Please,''I recommend staying calm''and try to get your cheated money back peacefully.''Transport''Many Peruvian''cities don’t have just one bus terminal''(including Lima), but several small terminals of different companies scattered throughout the city (which can be quite annoying). I recommend searching around for different prices before heading directly to one, because the difference can be enormous.''Sacred ceremonies, San Pedro and Ayahuasca''There is a great business around San Pedro ceremonies and the famous Ayahuasca in Peru. If you are interested in trying either of these natural medicines, I recommend you''find a reputable Shaman''on your own in order to have the most rewading experience. Don’t make the mistake of booking it through a tour agency, like most tourists do!''Volunteering''Peru is a place with''stunning volunteer opportunities''. From local organizations to hostels, the possibilities are endless. I spent a month volunteering at the bar of a hostel called Kokopelli and it was one of the best experiences of my trip. Highly recommended! You can have a look at''Workaway''to find plenty of opportunities in hostels, farms or local NGOs.''Travel to Iquitos''The boat trip from Yurimaguas to Iquitos''takes about 3 days''. If you want to make it shorter, you can get off in the town of Nauta that it is connected to Iquitos by road to save a few hours.''Do you have any questions about\xa0Backpacking in Peru? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Trekking the Huayhuash Circuit on a budget. Peru&#''Before I started my own travel blog I was inspired by cool photos and motivating stories written by some of the best adventurous travelers.''These are my favorite adventure travel blogs of 2018. If you don’t know them, check them out and enjoy this selection.''WHAT METRICS DO I USE FOR THIS LIST?''I’ve used my personal criteria. To create such a list, most people use Alexa Score, Domain Authority, Klout Score and monthly number of visits. However, we know that the most visited travel blog isn’t necessarily the best one. Even the DA, Some people are SEO geniuses and can get a lot of backlinks in a short period of time. They’ll have a high Domain Authority, but this doesn’t always represent the quality of their work.''This list is based on high-quality, well-written articles, informative posts, awesome pictures, nice entertainment and, above all, a lot of amazing adventures around the world.''IMPORTANT:''I usually update this list every year depending on what’s new, and also to provide an opportunity for new blogs that are rapidly growing and that deserve to be known. If your blog was on the list but it’s not anymore, I’m sorry. I still love your work but have just updated the list with new projects.''TOP 25 BEST ADVENTURE TRAVEL BLOGS TO FOLLOW IN 2018''1.''Nomad Revelations''Joao inspires us with the archive of 15 years of travel experiences, exotic narratives and adventure chronicles. This might be my favorite adventure travel blog!''2.''Lost with Purpose''Alex and Sebastiaan really know the meaning of getting off the beaten track. Deep storytelling, epic photos, and all the useful information a backpacker could need.''3.''Expert Vagabond''Professional traveler. Adventure photographer. Exploring the world. One of the best adventure travel blogs ever.''4.''Divergent Travelers''Lina & Dave, a married couple from Wisconsin, USA. Adventure travel through professional photography, videos, and stories. Super cool design and great adventures.''5.''The Adventure Junkies''One of the best adventure travel blogs that provides top notch, easy to understand, actionable education to get you started with outdoor activities.''6.''Adventure in You''Tom and Anna are two backpackers who met while traveling on a mission to travel around the world, one adventure at a time. Cool stories, photos and tips.''7.''Mapping Megan''Megan and Mike are two adventurous travelers and bloggers – bringing you amazing and inspiring pins from every corner of the world! Top bloggers with great stories!''8.''Freeborn Aiden''A great off-the-beaten-path traveler. Aiden shares his adventures around Europe, South America, Asia and the Middle East.''9.''Everything Everywhere''In March 2007 Gary sold his house and has been traveling around the world ever since. He is a really good photagrapher and says: Since I started traveling, I have probably done and seen more than I have in the rest of my life combined.''10.''Off the Path''Sebastian won’t stop traveling and exploring the world, and he has gathered all his experiences on this awesome blog for you.''11.''Wanderlusters''Charli is an adventurous traveler and avid scuba diver. She has great adventures and photos!''12.''Across and Abroad''Explore the world alongside Canadian travel writer David Webb. I love his photos, they’re great!''13.''Adventure Inspired''An outdoor lifestyle website dedicated to sharing stories, tips, trip reports, gear reviews, and anything related to playing outside!''14.''Borders of Adventure''Becki has\xa0a top travel blog about adventure and culture. Looking at the world with a different angle to change perceptions of the misunderstood.''15.''Just one way ticket''Sabrina is a Top travel blogger and inspires us with valuable tips, breathtaking photos and professional travel videos.''16.''Weekend Sherpa''Your e-magazine to outdoor adventures in the San Francisco Bay Area, Greater Los Angeles Area, and throughout California.''17.''Hiking the trail''This is a blog about the journey of one man’s dream to hike the Appalachian trail.''18.''Young Adventuress''Liz is a very inspirational blogger. She has a unique way of telling stories from a very personal and beautiful point of view.''19.''Round We Go''Round We Go is a travel blog of one couple’s journey around the world in search of food, drink and travel adventures.''20.''Stay Adventurous''Mexico Travel Tips by Craig Zabransky, a Mexico Travel expert and travel blogger. A lot of good information gathered on this great travel blog.''21.''Unusual Traveler''Chris is a young Norwegian fella who loves to travel! Often he finds himself drawn to the places where no-one, or at least few people, considers going to. One of the newest best adventure travel blogs.''22.''The Broke Backpacker''Adventurer and journalist. Backpacking from the UK to Papau New Guinea over 2 years. I love to follow Will’s adventure as he is very funny and a great storyteller.''23.''Ordinary Traveler''Christy and Scott are traveling the world & sharing the view through their lens. This is a blog for serious photo lovers!''24.''Xpatmatt''Matt Gibson is an outdoor adventure travel writer & photographer. Expat, surfer, snowboarder, in love with mountains, beaches, barefoot walking & naked swimming.''25.''Don’t stop living''Jonny is a travelling Northern Irishman in his late thirties and he has an absolute passion for people, places, travel, beer and football. Sometimes all at the same time.''DO YOU WANNA TAKE YOUR BLOG TO THE NEXT LEVEL?''If you want to create a serious website and monetize it, check out Matt Kepnes’ course! He’s the most successful travel blog in the world and his classes are awesome.''Not enough? Do you want to know other travel blogs I love? Ok, there you go:''Nomadic Samuel''This globe-trotter has been on the road for almost a decade inspiring us with amazing stories, photos and videos.''Thatbackpacker''Audrey is a travel blogger and youtuber with a passion for great adventures around the world.''Backpacking Travel blog''A very usefull travel blog with lots of tips, guides, ideas and great photos.''Smiling Faces Travel Photos''A fun project by the hand of Nomadic Samuel with lots of great photos and stories.''Aussie on the Road''Follow the adventures of Chris who inspires us with insteresting and\xa0funny\xa0stories around the world.''The Proffesional Hobo''Learn how to travel full-time in a financially sustainable way with Nora, the Professional Hobo.''Travel Notes and Beyond''A collection of travel stories, photos and\xa0personal opinions\xa0\xa0focusing on less known\xa0travel destinations.''Do you have any question about\xa0Top 25 Best Adventure Travel Blogs to follow in 2018? Please, contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''If you are an adventure lover, you know how important it is to have a rugged and durable watch to face the most extreme conditions.''Whether you are hiking a volcano or rafting on the Colorado River, the''best\xa0outdoor watches''can help you with the most sophisticated features, like GPS, an altimeter, a barometer, water resistance\xa0and much more.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best tactical watches'',''hiking watches'', and''hiking sunglasses''!''OUR LIST:''Garmin Fenix 5''Suunto Ambit 3''Suunto Traverse''Casio PRW-2500T 7CR''Garmin Quantix 3 GPS''Omega Seamaster''Suunto Core BM''Casio Rangeman GW9400BJ-1JF''Luminox Recon 8831''Luminox Dive 8362 PR''Comparison chart:''Model''GPS''Price''Editor Rating''Garmin Fenix 5''Yes''$$$''4.9''Suunto Ambit 3 Peak''Yes''$$''4.5''Suunto Traverse''Yes''$$''4.7''Casio PRW-2500T-7CR''No''$''4.5''Garmin Quatix 3 GPS''Yes''$$$''4.1''Omega Seamaster''No''$$$$''4.9''Suunto Core BM''No''$''4.0''Casio GW9400BJ-1JF''No''$$''4.5''Luminox Recon 8831''No''$''4.5''Luminox Dive 8362PR''No''$$''5.0''Finding the right Outdoor Watch''First, you need to know what features you are going to need on your''watch''. That will depend, of course, on the activities you participate in. On this list, you’ll see that I recommend different watches for different sports.''Ask yourself: Why do you need an outdoor watch? What sports do you participate in? Do you need a GPS? Do you need a shock-resistant watch? Do you plan to dive with it?''Most of the following models are meant for various adventure sports. However, some are recommended more for a particular activity.''Another thing to keep in mind is your budget. The more features the watch has, the more expensive it will be. Fortunately, you can find many great models for a very reasonable price.''The following recommendations are based on users’ reviews. That’s why I recommend only quality watches in the list below.''Garmin and Suunto''are my favorite brands. They are modern, resistant and good looking. They are great for multi sports, especially running and hiking.''Casio watches''tend to have a more classic style, and they have\xa0a great performance. Well, they’ve been in the watch business for decades, right? They know their stuff.''I think they are very proud of their G-Shock series. Those watches are almost indestructible!''If you want an outdoor watch with an\xa0elegant design, nothing can beat the''Omega Seamaster'', but, of course, it’s not cheap. Otherwise,''Luminox''has beautiful designs for a more reasonable price.''Let’s review the Best Watches for Outdoor Activities so that you can find the one that best fits your needs!''For multi-sports:''GARMIN FENIX 5''Check price on Amazon''The''Garmin Fenix 5 Sapphire''is ready for any training activity and competition. It’s equipped with a modern GPS system, wrist heart rate technology and the option to personalize it with different apps.''It features different profiles for hiking, swimming, rowing, running, golfing, skiing and more to track your distance, pace, stroke count, etc.''Recommended for:''Hiking, Water Sports, All Outdoor Activities.''SUUNTO AMBIT 3 PEAK OUTDOOR HRM''Check price on Amazon''The''Suunto Ambit 3 Peak''can record all data pertaining to workload, intensity, biomechanics and activity and then analyse it, send it to\xa0more than a thousand Suunto sport apps and inform the user of their performance.''Recommended for:''Hiking, Marathons, Running, Workout, All Outdoor Sports.''For Hiking:''SUUNTO TRAVERSE''Check price on Amazon''The''Suunto Traverse''is pretty similar to the Ambit 3, but it’s more focused on hiking and it comes with a few more features, like vibration alerts and flashlight backlight.''Recommended for:''Hiking routes where a good GPS, altimeter and barometer are needed.''CASIO MEN’S PRW-2500T-7CR PRO TECH''Check price on Amazon''The''Casio Men’s PRW-2500-TCR''is a great hiking watch with a traditional design and a more affordable price than the previous ones.''It features a great battery (rechargable by a solar panel), digital compass, altimeter, barometer and thermometer, but not GPS.''Recommended for:''Hiking routes where a GPS is not needed.''For water sports:''GARMIN QUATIX 3 GPS''Check price on Amazon''The''Garmin Quatix 3 GPS''is your watch for all sorts of water sports. It features tide data downloaded from your smartphone and cruising, fishing and sailing capabilities.''Recommended for:''Fishing Competition, Sailing.''OMEGA SEAMASTER BLACK DIAL''Check price on Amazon''The''Omega Seamaster''is a beautiful watch for water sports with a traditional and classic design. It features a scratch-resistant sapphire crystal and is suitable for scuba diving to a depth of 30 meters for up to two hours.''Recommended for:''Sailing, Fishing, Everyday Use.''For tough sports:''SUUNTO CORE BLACK MILITARY''Check price on Amazon''The''Suunto Core Black Military''comes with all the features, like a barometer, an altimeter and a thermometer, but it has a more robust and resistant construction.''Recommended for:''Hiking, Tactical, Military Uses, Extreme Sports.''CASIO G-SHOCK RANGEMAN GW9400BJ-1JF''Check price on Amazon''The''Casio GW9400Bj-1JF''is a watch that could really take a beating. Very solid and almost indestructible, this watch also features a barometer, thermometer, altimeter and digital compass.''Recommended for:''Hiking, Tactical, Military Uses, Extreme Sports.''Best outdoor watch with an elegant design''LUMINOX RECON 8831''Check price on Amazon''The''Luminox Recon 8831''is a beautiful and elegant watch that features a real compass, luminiscent markers and a reinforced case.''Recommended for:''Outdoor sports for which\xa0you don’t need features like GPS and barometer.''LUMINOX DIVE 8362PR''Check price on Amazon''The''Luminox 8362PR''is a stylish watch with a stainless steel case, a black dial with luminous hands, a scratch-resistant sapphire crystal and a chronograph.''Recommended for:''Everyday Use, Outdoor sports for which\xa0you don’t need many features.''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''Other adventurers also liked:''The Best Hiking Water Bottles''The Best Hiking Pillows''The Best GPS for Hiking''The Best Hiking Hammocks''Did you enjoy The Best Outdoor Watches? Please, share your comments!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Sunglasses for Hiking and Outdoor Spor...''Tactical Watches for Military Use Review''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches Review of 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''Whether you are on a short weekend getaway or completing a demanding thru-hike like the Appalachian Trail, you know how important it is to bring a resistant and comfortable tent.''If you would like to know what’s the''Best Tent for Backpacking and Camping,''you have come to the right place!''We have reviewed other hiking gear, like''travel backpacks'',''sleeping pads'',''camping pillows''and''hammocks''that you might need for your next adventure.''So, what’s the''best backpacking tent''of 2018? Follow this Ultimate Buyer’s Guide and find the one that best fits your needs and your budget!''COMPARISON CHART:''Backpacking Tents''Inner Floor (sq ft)''Weight''Price''Editor Rating''Hilleberg Anjan 2''30.1 ft2''3.5 lbs''$$$''4.4''MH Ghost UL 2''27.0 ft2''2.5 lbs''$$$''5.0''Big Agnes Spur UL 2''29.0 ft2''2.7 lbs''$$''4.6''North Face Mica FL2''28.3 ft2''3.1 lbs''$$$''4.2''Nemo Hornet 2P''28.0 ft2''2.0 lbs''$$''4.9''MSR Hubba Hubba NX2''29.0 ft2''3.4 lbs''$$''4.9''Black Diamond Mesa''32.5 ft2''4.5 lbs''$$''4.8''Marmot Limelight 2''32.0 ft2''+4 lbs''$$''4.7''Mountainsmith Morrison 2''35.0 ft2''4.6 lbs''$''4.6''ALPS Mountaineering Chaos 2''33.0 ft2''4.9 lbs''$''4.8''Kelty TN 2''27.5 ft2''4.2 lbs''$''4.6''Review of the Top 11 Best Camping Tents''TOP END''HILLEBERG ANJAN 2''The Hilleberj Anjan is an excellent, very light and resistant three-season tent. It’s been proven to withstand strong winds and snow even though it’s designed mainly for warm climates.\xa0Its tunnel construction offers maximum space and resistance while maintaining a great weight. There is a single entrance and vestibule, yet it’s very comfortable for two people.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 1 door''Inner Tent Area:''30.1 ft2''Weight:''3.5 lbs''Pros:''Solid construction, Resists hard\xa0wind''Cons:''Expensive''“Resistant high-quality tent”''Check price on Amazon''MOUNTAIN HARDWEAR GHOST UL 2''The MH Ghost is one of the lightest double-wall two-person tents. It’s the perfect option for hikers and travelers looking for a lightweight, easy-to-set-up, freestanding tent.\xa0It’s built with a special ripstop nylon that is especially durable, protecting the tent from bumps, scratches, etc. The secret to its light weight lies in the poles, which are made of ultralight aluminum. They offer great resistance and add minimal weight.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 1 door''Inner Tent Area:''27 ft2''Weight:''2.5 lbs''Pros:''Lightweight, Watertight construction''Cons:''Only one door, A bit expensive''“Lightweight and resistant”''Check price on Amazon''BIG AGNES COPPER SPUR UL2''The Copper is a full-featured, lightweight, easy-to-pack shelter for backpackers and adventurers. This tent features dual doors and steep, vertical walls.\xa0It features resistant poles made from special TH72M aluminum. The interior is quite comfortable for two people thanks to its generous inner height and adapted walls.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''29 ft2''Weight:''2.7 lbs''Pros:''Holds up\xa0in\xa0extreme winds, Lightweight, Solid''Cons:''Expensive''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''NORTH FACE MICA FL 2''The North Face Mica is a streamlined, resistant and well-designed tent. It maximizes the interior space and it’s easy to set up and pitch. It’s a great option for serious hikers and for\xa0those looking for great performance. It offers a great high-low ventilation system which allows for constant enhanced airflow.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''28.3 ft2''Weight:''3.1 lbs''Pros:''Good ventilation system, Solid construction''Cons:''Expensive''“Resistant and durable”''Check price on Amazon''NEMO HORNET 2P''The NEMO Hornet is definitely one of the best tents out there. It’s the lightest on the list and even though it’s not exactly cheap, it’s more affordable than the previous ones. The Hornet 2P is a resistant, durable, ultralight tent for backpackers and through-hikers.\xa0It’s the latest in ultralight, free-standing hiking tents, featuring two doors and two super practical vestibules, without adding extra weight.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''28 ft2''Weight:''2.0 lbs''Pros:''Quick setup, Durable, Super lightweight''Cons:''Reduced inner space''“Ultralight hiking tent”''Check price on Amazon''BEST BACKPACKING TENTS. MID-RANGE''MSR HUBBA HUBBA NX 2''The Hubba Hubba NX has been one of the most popular tents among backpackers and hikers for a long time. Nowadays, some new models are lighter and more comfortable (and more expensive). In my opinion, it’s probably the best in the mid-range.\xa0The interior feels spacious. It offers enough height to easily move around inside the tent. In addition, it provides two large vestibules to store your backpack and kitchen gear, providing even more comfort.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''29 ft2''Weight:''3.4 lbs''Pros:''Large vestibules, Different pitching options''Cons:''A bit heavier''“Very popular among hikers”''Check price on Amazon''BLACK DIAMOND MESA''The BD Mesa is another great option. It’s not as light as other models, but it features a very comfortable, large inner space. It’s a good option for backpackers who need extra space for storage.\xa0It will withstand hard climates and heavy rainfall. It features a 1800 mm polyester fly and a 2000 mm nylon floor to keep you dry at all times. It also offers two comfortable vestibules, giving you extra interior space.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''32.5 ft2''Weight:''4.5 lbs''Pros:''Well ventilated, Roomy''Cons:''Heavy''“Bigger floor area and vestibules”''Check price on Amazon''MARMOT LIMELIGHT 2''The Marmot Limelight is a resistant, easy-to-set-up tent. It has generous floor space and offers full weather protection against strong winds and rain. It’s a good value for the money.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 1 door''Inner Tent Area:''32 ft2''Weight:''+4 lbs''Pros:''Quick setup, Full weather protection''Cons:''Heavy''“Resistant tent”''Check price on Amazon''BEST BUDGET CAMPING TENTS''MOUNTAINSMITH MORRISON 2''If you’re looking for a great two-person tent with excellent climate resistance, this might be your choice. Keep in mind that it’s not as lightweight as other top-end hiking tents.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''35 ft2''Weight:''4.6 lbs''Pros:''Great price, Lots of inner space''Cons:''Heavy''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''ALPS MOUNTAINEERING CHAOS 2''Another good option for travelers and hikers on a budget. A bit heavier than the previous, but it offers great weather protection for the price.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''33 ft2''Weight:''4.9 lbs''Pros:''Good price, Full weather protection''Cons:''Heavy''“Roomy and affordable”''Check price on Amazon''KELTY TN 2''The last tent on the list. A bit smaller than the other budget tents on the list, but also a bit lighter. Great performance for its price.''Features:''2 person, 3 season, 2 doors''Inner Tent Area:''27.5 ft2''Weight:''4.2 lbs''Pros:''Quick setup, Good price''Cons:''Small inner space''“Popular and affordable hiking tent”''Check price on Amazon''A few things to consider before buying the a hiking tent:''CAPACITY''Unless you are planning to always travel by yourself, I suggest that, at the minimum, you get a 2-person tent. These tents are light and compact and can be used for solo travelers or with a partner. It’s always good to have extra space for gear.''If you are hiking in a group or need a bigger, family tent, there are great models available for up to four people.''Keep in mind that four-person tents or family tents usually take up a lot of space and tend to be quite heavy. They can be a good option for camping with a large group. However, this list covers only one-, two- or three-person tents because I wanted to focus on lightweight models.''3 SEASON or 4 SEASON?''3 season tents''are usually the most popular choice among hikers and backpackers. They should withstand storms and light snowfall while being light and compact and having good ventilation.''The perfect solution for short- or long-term backpacking trips and mountain trails without extreme climates or heavy snowfall.''4 season tents''are designed for cold climates and heavy snowfalls. They are a good choice for high-altitude hikers and winter adventurers.''TYPE OF SETUP''Freestanding tents''use a fixed pole sytem and can be pitched almost anywhere. These are the tents most people choose because they are versatile, practical and easier to set up.''Non-freestanding tents''use guy lines, stakes and poles for setup. They tend to be lighter than freestanding tents, but also take longer to set up.''DOORS AND VESTIBULES''If you are going to use the tent for just yourself, one door and vestibule might be enough. But if you want to fit two people, I’d go for two doors and two vestibules. This way, you won’t need to jump over your tent mate to get out, and each person will have his own vestibule for keeping his gear.''WEIGHT''Carrying a few extra pounds for two or three days won’t be a big deal, but if you are planning a backpacking trip or long multi-day hike, you’ll be happier bringing a''lightweight backpacking tent''.''This list focuses on lightweight models, ideal for people looking to add as little weight and space as possible to their backpacks.''POPULAR BRANDS. WHAT DO YOU NEED?''As you have seen, a wide variety of tents are available on the market. The key is to find the one that best meets your needs. This might depend on your budget, as well as on the type of activity, climate, use, brand, etc.''Among the primary brands on the market are:''COLEMAN:''A classic brand in the world of tents and camping equipment. As you can see, I haven’t reviewed any Coleman tent on my list. Why? Aren’t they good? It’s not that. Coleman tents are very good. The problem is that they are also quite heavy and usually take up a lot of space. I’d say they work fine for general camping – like bringing the tent with you in your car, getting to the campsite, and then pitching your tent. That’s perfect.''However, if you plan to travel, bring a tent in your backpack, etc., I wouldn’t buy a Coleman. Though they are available for a good price and are high in quality, that extra weight and space aren’t worth it for long-term travel or multi-day hikes.''NORTH FACE, MSR, MOUNTAIN HARDWARE, NEMO, BLACK DIAMOND:''All these brands are really good. They aren’t focused so much on camping gear, but on high-altitude hiking, trekking, climbing, etc. That’s why they work hard to reduce weight and size to the minimum while maintaining the highest quality standards. Some models offer extra resistance against rain, wind and snow. Many people use these brands for high-altitude routes, where snowfall or heavy storms are foreseeable. In addition, at a certain altitude the winds can be very strong, and these brands are designed to resist them.''If you’re planning to do a lot of hiking, I think these are your best options. They aren’t cheap but are worth every penny. The seams resist for years, the fabrics are waterproof and the weight is fantastic. Obviously, these brands offer various models, and you’ll find different qualities, weights, etc. Look carefully at the tent’s characteristics before you buy it.''KELTY, MOUNTAINSMITH, ALPS:''These are also reliable brands. The advantage is that they are available for reasonable prices for their quality. Many offer lightweight, three-season tents with great weather resistance. I think they are the perfect option for backpackers looking for quality and performance at a good price.''OTHER BRANDS:''Thousands of brands and models are out there. However, let me give you some advice. Don’t buy a $20 or $50 tent and expect the best performance. If you’re going to use it in dry weather, it may work for a while, but generally you get what you pay for, and cheap tents tend to be quite bad. I’m telling you from experience; I have bought cheap tents, and they all lasted for a short time. On top of that, they usually present a problem: they aren’t breathable. This means you’ll find condensation on the inner walls. It’s also common to find water leaks with heavy rains.''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''Other adventurers also liked:''Top 10 Hiking GPS''Top 10 Sleeping Bags''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches''Top 10 Best Tactical Watches''Top 10 Hiking Backpacks''Top 10 Best Watches for Outdoor sports''Top 10 Ropes for Climbing''Top 10 Outdoor Sunglasses''Rei article about''How to choose the best tents for camping''Did you enjoy the Top 11 Best Tents for Backpacking, Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best Backpacking Gear List: Stuff I like''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''Best Hiking gear list for all your treks''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''Rugged and durable, military watches offer the best features for those who have to face the most extreme conditions.''They are used mainly by hikers, hunters, mountaineers and soldiers, but thanks to their modern and elegant designs they can be anyone’s everyday watch.''Let’s review the''best tactical watches of 2018''so that you can compare features, designs, qualities and prices.''Comparison chart:''Military Watch''Key Features''Price''Garmin Tactix''Altimeter''Barometer''Compass''GPS''$$$''Suunto Core B M''Depth mesurement''Altimeter''Barometer''Compass''$$''Garmin Fenix 5''Thermometer''Altimeter''Barometer''Compass''GPS''$$$''Casio G-Shock GW9400BJ-1JF''Super resistant''Thermometer''Altimeter''Barometer''Compass''$$''Casio G-Shock GA100-1A1''Super resistant''Stopwatch''Long life batteries''$''Casio G-Shock G100-1BV''Super resistant''Stopwatch''Long life batteries''$''Casio G-Shock GD-120 CM Camo''Super resistant''Stopwatch''Long life batteries''$''Casio Pro-trek PAG240-1CR''Super Resistant''Thermometer''Altimeter''Barometer''Compass''$$''Luminox Recon 8831''Scratch resistant Crystal''Real compass''$$''Luminox Navy 3081''Cronograph''200M water resistant''$$''Considerations to take into account when choosing the a military watch:''NIGHT VISION''Most military watches have advanced technology that allows you to read information in absolute darkness.''BATTERIES''They have very long-lasting batteries and many of them are rechargeable using\xa0a solar panel.''FEATURES''Some models are equipped with modern features like a barometer, thermometer, altimeter, compass,''GPS''and more.''The altimeter tells you the height at which you are, the barometer and thermometer tell you what weather is coming and the digital compass and GPS will help you locate your position.''DESIGN''Being designed for tactical and military activities, hunting, hiking and outdoor sports, these watches are usually dark, non-reflective and robust.''WATER RESISTANT''All of them must be water-resistant, with 100 meters being the typical\xa0depth they can resist.''DURABILITY''Tactical watches are designed to withstand the most extreme conditions, so they are highly resistant. Many of them are made of titanium or resin with leather or nylon bezels.''Photo:''halfrain''Creative Commons''Top 10 Tactical Watches Review''TOP END''Garmin Tactix Bravo''Check price on Amazon''Based on the Garmin Fenix 3 Sapphire, this excellent watch comes with some extra military features.''This multifunction watch combines tactical functionality with smart features for hiking, all in a beautiful design. It features an all-black, non-reflective and resistant construction for extreme environments. Its dual-mode operation optimizes the sunlight-readable display for daily use or night vision goggle compatibility.''It’s equipped with all the key features like an altimeter, barometer, compass, GPS, rechargeable battery, Wi-Fi, sunlight-readable color Chroma display, super resistant sapphire lens and more.''Pros:''Great features, Nice design.''Cons:''Expensive.''GREAT PERFORMANCE''Suunto Core Black Military''Check price on Amazon''Nice design, quality, high resistance and great\xa0features in just one watch!''This is also a good option for hikers, adventurers or soldiers, as it features depth measurement, an altimeter, a digital compass and a pressure barometer which alerts you when a storm is coming.''Functional, super resistant and easy to use even in the dark.''Pros:''Great features and design, best value for money.''Cons:''Big size, no GPS.''Garmin Fenix 5''Check price on Amazon''The Garmin Fenix 5 is an awesome watch equipped with features like thermometer, barometer, altimeter, advanced GPS, rechargeable battery, heart rate monitor, Wi-Fi, Chroma display, calorie and step counter, 100-meter water resistance, etc.''It’s one of the most featured watches on the list.''Pros:''Resistant, great design, many features.''Cons:''Expensive.''SUPER RESISTANT MODELS''Casio G-Shock Rangeman GW9400BJ-1JF''Check price on Amazon''This a tough watch designed to withstand the worst conditions and be practically indestructible!''It’s fully equipped with a barometer, altimeter, thermometer, digital compass and most resitant G-Shock system.''It’s extremely solid and durable!''Pros:''Extremely resistant.''Cons:''Less elegant than others.''Casio G-Shock GA100-1A1''Check price on Amazon''This is a tactical watch designed to be tough, durable and resistant. It’s made of resin, is 200 M water resistant and is ready to withstand any extreme situation, never to break!''The batteries are designed to last for more than two years. It also has a stopwatch, anti-magnetic structure, auto LED light with afterflow, full auto-calendar and world time.''It’s not that good as a hiking watch because\xa0it doesn’t feature an altimeter, barometer or compass, but it’s the perfect watch for hunters, soldiers or anyone looking for a watch that can really take a beating.''Pros:''Great price, impact resistant, 200M water resistant, stopwatch.''Cons:''Pretty big if you have a small wrist.''Casio G-Shock G100-1BV''Check price on Amazon''Designed for marine activities, water sports, military and outdoor activities, this is another great and resistant watch with a more elegant and stylish design than the Casio G-Shock Rangeman.''It features anti-magnetic resistance, dual time, an alarm, a stopwatch, an auto calendar and 200M water resistance. Unfortunately, this model is not equipped with a barometer, altimeter or compass, so keep that in mind if you want to use it on your hiking routes.''Pros:''Good price, nice design, high resistance.''Cons:''No features like a barometer, altimeter\xa0or\xa0compass.''Casio G-Shock GD-120 CM Camo''Check price on Amazon''Designed for professional military and marine activities, this great watch will hold up under all the hardest conditions.''It’s pretty “unbreakable” as are all G-Shock watches, and it’s equipped with world time, 200M water resistance, an illuminator, a stopwatch and battery life of 10 years!''This is a beautiful camouflage watch with great resistance and a good price.''Pros:''Good price, high resistance, long life batteries.''Cons:''No features like a barometer, altimeter or compass.''STYLISH DESIGN''Casio Pro-trek PAG240-1CR Pathfinder''Check price on Amazon''The Casio PAG240-1CR Pathfinder is a fantastic watch with a beautiful design and very reasonable price.''It comes with all the key Casio features like low temperature resistance, an altimeter, barometer, thermometer, digital compass, 100M water resistance, daily alarms and world time.''It has a round stainless steel case, making it a beautiful and resistant watch for any kind of outdoor activity, especially hiking and mountaineering.''Pros:''Great features, good value for the money.''Cons:''Alarm is not that loud.''Luminox Recon 8831''Check price on Amazon''This is a very elegant watch, featuring a black carbon reinforced case with a black silicon strap and a uni-directional rotating carbon bezel.''It’s an analogical watch with luminescent hands and markers, data display, scratch-resistant sapphire crystal and 200M water resistance.''The old-fashioned compass attached to the strap is great! If you are not much into digital stuff and are looking for a stylish resistant watch, this might be your best option.''Pros:''Real compass, elegant design.''Cons:''Not many features.''Luminox Navy 3081''Check price on Amazon''This is a very elegant and stylish watch with features including a date window, chronograph subdials and 200M water resistance.''It’s a very popular watch; most people choose it for its cool design, but on the downside it’s not equipped with a barometer, altimeter or compass. Still, it is a very resistant and robust watch designed to withstand impacts and hard conditions.''Pros:''Stylish design, good value for money.''Cons:''No features like barometer, altimeter or compass.''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''CONCLUSION:''If you are looking for a full-featured watch, the''Garmin Tactix Bravo''might be your best choice. It provides the best features and design. The body of the watch is resistant and durable, so this watch will last for many years.''If you are looking for a really tough watch (almost indestructible), I’d go for the''Casio G-Shock GD 120 Camo''. It’s a very popular watch for military purposes.''Other adventurers also liked:''Hiking Watches Review''Outdoor Watches Review''Climbing Ropes Review''Backpacking Hammocks Review''Do you have any question about The Best Tactical Watches 2018? Please, contact me!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches Review of 2018''Top 10 Best Sunglasses for Hiking and Outdoor Spor...''Top 10 Best Outdoor Watches 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''Considered one of the meccas of every traveler,''the sacred city of Machu Picchu''is one of those magical places you will never forget in your life.''Built in the fifteenth century, it was the residence of Pachacutec, one of the most important Inca emperors. Also used as a religious shrine or even military base, is an unmatched masterpiece of architecture and since 2007, one of the new''7 wonders of the modern world''.''Early in the morning, the mist conceals part of the ruins giving a mystical aspect. Gradually, the great citadel reveals its beauty and finally Huaynapichu, the enormous rock that guards the city in the background. It is a breathtaking image. The image we have seen so often in pictures, postcards and documentaries, is no where near close to what you see with your own eyes.''The 3 most popular options of how to get to Machu Picchu''INCA TRAIL''Many tourists who come to the city of Cusco, want to take the famous Inca Trail to reach Machu Picchu. The Inca trail can only be done through an official agency and''costs around 350 dollars''. There are a lot of agencies around Cusco where you can book it and usually can be completed in 3-5 days. Due to the hefty price, I was very sure that this wouldn’t be our choice.''SALKANTAY HIKE''This was the option my dear friend Jabi and I chose as an alternative to the Inca trail. The hike can be completed in''4-5 days and can be done on your own'', without guides. The trek begins in the village of Mollepata, where you pay a registration fee at the checkpoint, in the main square. Something like 130 soles, $ 40. Just a heads up (the Ministry of Tourism of Peru is not going to like this but..) you can go around the village on the left side without actually passing through the center, and therefore not paying the fee. Some locals will tell you that you are going in the wrong direction and you have to go through the center .. but we said we were taking pictures and this way we didn´t actually reach the village centre.''Unfortunately, the second day Jabi sprained his ankle and could not continue our journey. We had a few beers in a small town to relieve the pain of his twisted ankle and the sadness for not being able to continue. Then we got a Jeep lift that took us to Santa Teresa and from there we could find transportation to Cusco.''THE FAMOUS RAILWAY FROM HIDROELÉCTRICA''After the frustrating attempt to reach Machu Picchu by hiking, like explorers searching for the city of “El Dorado”, we opted for''the 100% backpacker option'': The Railway from Hidroeléctrica. It’s not difficult, but you have to do different changes, so I will explain it step by step:''From Cusco to Santa Maria''First, you have to go to the small bus terminal of Santiago, in Cusco. From there, you should take the bus going to Quillabamba, but get off at Santa Maria. The price is about 15-20 soles, depending on your bargaining skills. The trip takes about 7 hours so it’s good to get to the terminal very early. Otherwise, you won’t have time to make all the transport changes in the same day. Get to the terminal before 7:00 a.m.''From Santa Maria to Santa Teresa''When you arrive at Santa Maria, you will see that just after getting off the bus, different drivers will be offering you a ride to Santa Teresa. The price is 20 soles for the whole ride to share with other travelers. The road is in a very bad condition but the cliffs around are spectacular.''From Santa Teresa to Hidroeléctrica''Once in Santa Teresa, we took another shared taxi to the Hydroelectric. It costs about 5 soles per person and is quite a short ride, 20 minutes maximum. In the Hydroelectric all travelers must register at the checkpoint.''From Hidroeléctrica to Aguas Calientes''From here it is a journey of about 3 hours to the small touristy town of Aguas Calientes. At first the path can be a little confusing, but there are several signs pointing the way.You walk along the train railways through a dense jungle with the river and the mountain of Machu Picchu on the side.''Aguas Calientes to Machu Picchu''Once in Aguas Calientes, you must spend the night there and wake up very early to get to Machu Picchu at dawn and have time to go back to Cusco on the same day (unless you want to sleep in Aguas Calientes again).''The trek to Machu Picchu can be completed in one and a half or two hours, depending on your speed. Once at the top, enjoy the show!''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''Cusco:''Kokopelli''. Without doubt, my favorite option in Cusco. Best vibes!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you travel to Peru. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Hiking Santa Cruz Trek in Peru''Do you have any questions about How to get to Machu Picchu on a budget? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Papua,''Indonesia’s''last frontier, is one of the most remote, beautiful and culturally fascinating places I’ve ever seen.''The local tribes'', Dani and Yali, will surprise you with their traditions, strange clothes (or lack there of) and their kindness. In addition, the landscapes throughout the valley are spectacular; huge cliffs, waterfalls and rivers are home to this unusual people.''Knowing some Bahasa Indonesia (which is the easiest language to learn in the world) it is possible and advisable to make the Baliem Valley trek without agencies. Otherwise,''be prepared to pay about 70 dollars''a day for guides and porters.''There are several routes and options depending on the days you want to wander through the valley. In my case, I took 6 days accompanied by my friend Adriana. After talking with some local people, I think that the route we took was''alright to follow without a guide''. A longer hike, going to remote areas can be complicated without someone who knows the roads. In fact, I had to hire a local guide for 2 days to get to Kiroma.''MAP''HIKING THE BALIEM VALLEY ON A BUDGET FOR 6 DAYS''Day 1: Wamena – Kurima – Hitugi''The first day it’s best to wake up early and take the bus that goes''to the post of Kurima''. Here you have to register at a police post and begin the trek.''It’s a simple way along the valley, with the Baliem river on one side. Once we cross the river by a reliable wooden bridge, the climb to''the village of Hitugi''begins.''The village, like all of them, is very basic, but you can get a floor (literally) to sleep on and buy some food. It’s the first contact with the local people.''The village of Hitugi''Characters of Hitugi''Day 2: Hitugi – Yuarima – Yogoshine''A day with beautiful landscapes along the valley and the river. It descends''from Hitugi to Yuarima'', a nice town with many children, and after crossing the river, the climb begins to Yogoshine.''In my opinion, this is the day with the most stunning scenery.''Yogoshine''is also where I liked the people more, they were nice, they approached, we took photos and shared some betel nuts.''Yuarima''Day 3: Yogoshine – Kiroma''Once in Yogoshine, I thought it would be a good idea to reach''the territory of the Yali'', beyond the village of Peliam. In this area the paths aren’t well marked and its easy to get lost, so I hired a local guide who would take me to the village of Peliam while Adriana would wait a few days resting in Yogoshine.''In the end, we only arrived to''Kiroma''and then decided to turn back. The path was extremely heavy, with mud and water. In addition, you must pass a mountain, I had not many warm clothes and the nights were freezing.''In any case, reaching Kiroma with my guide was''a good adventure''. We spent a night in a shelter where water and cold trickled between the walls and crossed some complicated areas. We also came across some very real villagers.''On our way to Kiroma''100% Himidity''That’ where we slept one night''Day 4: Kiroma – Yogoshine''Realizing that reaching Peliam would be too complicated because of the cold, rain and mud, I decided to turn around and''return to Yogoshine'', hang out again with Adriana and keep on this amazing route through\xa0the Baliem Valley.''Sunrise near Kiroma''Nice Celebration in Yogoshine''Day 5: Yogoshine – Somewhere between Syokosimo and Userem''This was undoubtedly the most exciting day of hike. We were back on the route, circling, returning by the other side of the valley and trying to get to''Syokosimo''where we could sleep.''For some reason that I don’t understand,''we kind of got lost''. The path was slippery, we had to cross a small river that ended up being a waterfall and in the end, it was too late. The sun was setting and we were in a thick forest that never seemed to end. We knew there was a village nearby but could not find it.''Finally, we could see the village at about 500 meters but it was dark, we kept going following the smoke rising from the houses and a man showed up and guided us to the dreamed destination. Literally''all the people came out''and help with looking for a place for us to sleep, they opened an old house by forcing the door with a crowbar. We all sat on the floor and spent some time eating, talking and laughing.''This town isn’t on the map and I don’t know the name, but they said that tourists never went out there and the''people were incredibly nice''.''Day 6: Lost Village – Kurima''After spending a fun morning with all the people of this village, some children guided us for an hour to take back the original path so we could''finish our route to Kurima''. This was a simple day, descending the mountain and the valley to Kurima where we got a transport to Wamena.''BUDGET FOR HIKING THE BALIEM VALLEY''To make the trek on our own, we spent about''$8 a day between accommodation and food''. The local guide who took me to Kiroma charged me 150,000 rupiahs a day, around $10. A good price.''Accommodation''All the places on my route and detailed map feature basic huts or family houses to sleep.''The price per person is about 100,000 rupiahs, but we negotiate to''60,000 rupiahs''in each village and they all agreed.''Transport. How to get to the Baliem Valley''To get there you have to fly to Wamena.''Jayapura – Wamena''with Air Trigana cost around''$150''. From Wamena to Kurima there are several vans in the morning.''Food and drink''You will find boiled water in every village and you can buy some food that they’ll cook for you.''In general, we didn’t spend more than''$2 – $3 a day on food''.''WEATHER, WHEN TO GO.''Rainfall is constant throughout the year, so it shouldn’t be an obstacle to visit the Baliem valley.''During''July and August there are major festivals''with representations of wars, tribal dances, etc.''Check out''the''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches''WHERE TO STAY''Before you get to the Baliem Valley, you’ll probably need to stay one or two nights in Jayapura. Most hostels will cost you around $20-$25 \xa0for a single or double room.''I liked this place:''Homestay Galpera Papua''.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Papua. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options.''TRAVEL TIPS FOR HIKING THE BALIEM VALLEY''Wamena Market''Before you grab your backpack and get lost in the valley, I recommend you''visit the amazing and colorful market of Wamena.''You can take the opportunity to ask the name of some fruits and vegetables in the local language. So, you know how to ask for them while trekking.''Couchsurfing''The hostels in Papua are quite expensive'', however, there are several interesting couchs both in Jayapura and Wamena. Check out the''Couchsurfing Website''.''Maps''The map I have attached to this post is indicative and distances are not to scale, but it serves to give you an idea. In Wamena you can get more detailed maps. You can have a look at this''Wikiloc route''.''Trekking routes''Although we walked for six days, I think a 4-day route through the valley is enough to meet people and enjoy the scenery.''Of course including more days would also be interesting, but if you want to get away from this basic path, you should get a guide.''I recommend:''Day 1: Wamena – Kurima – Hitugi.''Day 2: Hitugi – Yogoshine.''Day 3: Yogoshine – Syokosimo.''Day 4: Syokosimo – Kurima – Wamena.''If you intend to go further you can get a guide in these same villages for a much better price than in Wamena. Expect to pay about 150,000 rupiahs a day.''Learn Bahasa Indonesia''Knowing''the minimum of their language''is very important to buy food, ask for directions, places to sleep, etc.''Meet the locals''Although obviously influenced by the modern world, these characters still live in the traditional way and keep their culture almost intact, with their simple lives, huts and traditions.''Of course, the younger people wear shirts and shoes nowadays, but if you spend a few days with them, you’ll see their way of life is almost as it was hundreds of years ago.''Papua is your last adventure in Indonesia!''“They were well flavored days of intense mountain, not for the food which was poor or for the boiled water that tasted like fire, but because we felt the force of such overwhelming nature with its rivers of rough water and suspension bridges, thick forests and mud puddles, and above all, for meeting this incredible people that despite time and modernity, keep that tribal force and Papua heart intact.”''Do you have any question \xa0about Hiking the Baliem valley? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''Annapurna base camp trek: Step by step guide''Trekking the Huayhuash Circuit on a budget. Peru&#''Fins are an essential part of your personal scuba gear, along with your''diving\xa0mask'',''wetsuit'',''BCD''and''dive computer''. Five pieces you need to be familiar with so that you’ll feel more confident during your dives.''It’s not fun when you rent some old fins from a dive center and they don’t fit well or you get blisters from them. Having your own fins is one of the best investments you can make to enjoy comfortable dives!''I know, there are a lot of new models out there, and it is not easy to make a choice. Don’t worry, I’m going to review the best scuba diving fins we can find on the market to help you make the right decision. These recommendations are based on my own experience and the ratings of other experienced divers, and you’ll find a lot of great models starting from as little as $40!''TOP 10 SCUBA FINS. COMPARISON. 10''Scuba Fins''Foot style''Blade''Price''Editor Rating''Atomic Aquatics Split''Open Heel''Split''$$$$''4.7''Atomic Aquatics Blade''Open Heel''Paddle''$$$''4.2''Cressi Ara EBS''Open Heel''Paddle''$$$''4.6''Scubapro Twin Jet''Open Heel''Split''$$$''4.8''Aqualung Stratos 3''Full foot''Paddle''$$''4.6''Mares Wave''Full foot''Paddle''$''4.4''Scubapro Seawing Nova''Open Heel''Paddle''$$$$''4.9''Sherwood Triton''Open Heel''Paddle''$$''4.9''Seac Propulsion''Open Heel''Paddle''$$''4.2''Tusa Liberator X Ten''Open Heel''Paddle''$''4.9''Follow this buying guide and find the scuba fins that best suit your needs!''A few things to consider when choosing the best scuba fins:''Full foot or Open heel?''Full foot''are good for snorkeling and diving in warm water; you can wear them barefoot or use socks to prevent blisters.''Open heel''are usually more efficient and powerful; you wear them with neoprene boots. This is the option most divers choose.''If you go for an open-heel fin, choose a model with quick-adjust buckles or springs. This will make it easier for you to take them off when you get out of the water.''Type of blade: Paddle or split?''Paddle fins''are the classic fins people have been using since the 1940s. Of course, the new models have variations on the design. In addition,\xa0as new materials have been introduced to be more efficient and flexible.''Split fins''are made to allow greater strength for the fins and to act like propellers. They provide the same propulsion with less effort.''Materials''Most fins are made of different materials. The heel is usually made of neoprene rubber while the paddle is made of several plastic alloys. Some models are made completely of rubber.''Top 10 Best Scuba Diving Fins, Review''ATOMIC AQUATICS SPLIT''The''Atomic Aquatics Split''fins are probably the best scuba fins on the market. They allow you to deliver more propulsion with less drag thanks to their advanced design.''Pros:''You save energy, great propulsion.''Cons:''Quite expensive.''“Great propulsion with less effort”''Check price on Amazon''ATOMIC AQUATICS BLADE FIN''The''Atomic Aquatics Blade''fins are engineered for power and thrust. They have a solid structure to generate lots of propulsion through the frame rails and they are a very popular choice for many divers.''They are a bit more affordable than the Atomic Aquatics Split, with great results.''Pros:''Powerful propulsion.''Cons:''Expensive.''“Great fins for experienced divers”''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI ARA EBS''The''Cressi Ara EBS''features a special strap, improved blade and wide foot pocket, which is great to use with drysuit boots.''Cressi has created one of the best scuba diving fins, ideal for intermediate and advanced divers.''Pros:''Great overall performance.''“Powerful and lightweight”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO TWIN JET''The''Scubapro Twin Jet''features a combination of rigid outer support with a more flexible inner part of the blade.''This helps you get better propulsion than with traditional blade fins, with less effort and stress.''Pros:''Great propulsion with less effort.''Cons:''There are cheaper options.''“Great performance, less effort”''Check price on Amazon''AQUALUNG STRATOS 3''The''Aqualung Stratos 3''combines good propulsion with comfort and durability.''They are perfect for divers who want all-around full-foot fins with great resistance and performance.''Pros:''Durability, price.''Cons:''They are not good for cold water.''“Durable, light and affordable fin”''Check price on Amazon''MARES WAVE''The''Mares Wave''is a great fin for use in warm water. They feature a comfortable soft-rubber pocket with a resistant and highly efficient blade.''It’s the lightest fin on the list, making it the best scuba fin\xa0for travelers.''Pros:''Great price, good performance.''Cons:''They are not good for cold water.''“Best value for the money, perfect for travelers”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO SEAWING NOVA''The''Scubapro Seawing Nova''features different technology with articulated joints. This design allows the blade to pivot, so the entire blade is able to generate thrust.''It is one of the most efficient and powerful fins, with reduced drag and increased thrust. It is one of the best scuba diving fins on the market right now.''Pros:''Best overall performance.''Cons:''Expensive.''“Durability, comfort, power and effortless speed”''Check price on Amazon''SHERWOOD TRITON''The''Sherwood Triton''is a great fin, incorporating both an old-school design and the most advanced technology.''These fins have three vents between the foot pocket and the blade, providing a great thrust on the down kick and decreasing drag on the up kick. Triton fins are positively buoyant, so they will float if they come off.''Pros:''Great thrust, decreased drag.''“Old school style with great propulsion”''Check price on Amazon''SEAC PROPULSION''The''Seac Propulsion''is a great fin that offers a combination of good performance, comfort, power, efficiency and reasonable price.''Pros:''Good value for the money.''Cons:''Maybe not the best on the list, but they do really well.''“Power, comfort and good price”''Check price on Amazon''TUSA LIBERATOR X-TEN''The''Tusa Liberator X-Ten''is the best option for those who are looking for great fins at a very affordable price.''The stabilizers on the blade surface and rails generate great propulsion with minimal exertion, and the strap and buckle system makes fins easy to put on and take off.''Pros:''Best price on the list.''Cons:''No top-quality fins, but really good for the price.''“Perfect for entry-level and intermediate divers”''Check price on Amazon''A few extra tips:''Keep in mind that dry suits require the use of bigger booties. If you have a dry suit, you’ll need two different sizes: one for the wetsuit and another for the dry suit.''Check your strips from time to time, as they are the least resistant part of the fin. You should change the strips if you see that they are somewhat damaged. Don’t wait for them to break. This way you avoid losing a fin in the middle of a dive.''Use a marker and write your name on your fins. As a rule, I recommend that you mark all your equipment, especially the fins. After a dive, the fins of all the group members get scattered throughout the boat; some models are quite popular and this creates confusion.''Other divers who enjoyed “The Best Scuba Fins Review” also liked:''The Best Scuba Regulators''The Best Dive Knives''The Best Dive Lights''The Best Underwater Cameras''The Best Snorkel Gear''The Best Full Face Snorkel Masks''Enjoy this PADI article:''Fins for Scuba Diving''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you like The Top 10 Best Fins for Scuba Diving, Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''Top 10 Best Dive Cameras Review 2018. Buyers Guide''Top 10 Best Scuba Diving Masks Review of 2018''Top 10 Best BCDs for Scuba Diving. 2018 Ultimate B...''If you liked this, please share it:''What is it like to dive\xa0in Borneo?\xa0Sipadan diving season, dive sites, permits.''Ever since the famous''Jacques Cousteau''visited this small island in the Malaysian Borneo and discovered the marine diversity of the place, Sipadan has been one of the most famous diving destinations in the world. Actually, the island has been\xa0voted''the best dive site in the world''by various\xa0magazines and organizations.''I had already dived in many\xa0amazing places, like the Red Sea in Egypt, Komodo Park and Pulau Weh in''Indonesia''and other great\xa0dive sites in the Philippines, but I have to say that this was''the most amazing underwater show''I’ve seen in my life!''Here you will find a marine paradise of crystal-clear water with beautiful coral walls and colorful gorgonian visited by sharks, bumphead parrotfish, Napoleon wrasse, huge turtles, stingrays and many more sea creatures.''The highlight was undoubtedly my encounter with a''great school of barracuda!''The great School of Barracuda. Photo by''Barry Peters''. Creative Commons''What are the most famous dive sites in Sipadan?''There is a great array\xa0of dive sites around the small island of Sipadan. Some of the best spots are:''Barracuda Point:''As the name suggests, this popular site is where you’ll find a great school of barracudas. Simply spectacular!''Coral Garden:''An amazing place where you’ll see a great diversity of coral and marine life.''The drop-off:''Another classic dive site in Sipadan, where a huge 600 meter drop creates a unique underwater world.''South Point:''This is one of the best points in Sipadan to find Hammerhead sharks and Thresher sharks. However, this is a site for experienced divers because\xa0the dive tends to be at a depth of about 40 meters.''Mid-reef:''This is a beautiful dive focused more on the diversity of coral and small fish rather than on large pelagics.''What is the best season for diving in Sipadan?''It is possible to dive in Sipadan with good visibility at any time throughout the year. However, for the most stunning experiences, the best time is''from March to October'', during the dry season.''During those months, the visibility can reach\xa0up to 50 meters!''A beautiful Whale Shark. Photo by Scuba Junkie''What permits do I need to dive in Sipadan?''The government of Sabah has developed a plan to protect this marine paradise, so there is a maximum of''120 divers allowed per day''.''Just book your dives in advance and your dive center will prepare\xa0all the paperwork to get you permission to dive on the available dates.''You can find a lot of sharks in Sipadan. Photo by Scuba Junkie''Where can I stay? Which dive center should I go with to dive in Sipadan?''There are several dive centers in Semporna offering diving packages for Sipadan. As always, some of them are more professional, others less. Some have better gear, some are more expensive, some are cheaper, etc.''I dived with''Scuba Junkie''and it was a very good experience. They have several packages, so you can book your dives in Sipadan and also other dives on islands like Mabul, Mantuabuan, Sinuan, etc.''Accommodation can be either in Semporna at their backpacker hostel or at the resort on the island of Mabul, which is really worth it.''Tips for Diving Sipadan. Diving season, dive sites, permits.''1. Book your dives way''in advance''because the 120 permits a day go really fast!''2. If you have not been able to book in advance and you get there without a permit, some companies may have space, but''they might charge you more''. It depends on the dive center.''3. Take the opportunity to dive into other nearby islands like''Mabul, Kapalai or Mantabuan,''where the diving is also very good.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before diving in Sipadan. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Other divers also liked:''Top 10 BCDs for Scuba''Top 10 Scuba Diving Regulators''Top 10 Wetsuits for Diving''Top 10 Scuba Diving Fins''Top 10 Dive Computers''Top 10 Underwater Cameras''Top 10 Dive Masks''Top 10 Diving Knives''Top 10 Dive Lights''The Best Snorkel Gear''Did you like Sipadan diving season, dive sites, permits and accommodation? Please, share your experiences!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Are you looking for the''best trekking pants''? You’ve come to the right place! Whether you’re planning a short trek or a multi-day hike along the''Appalachian Trail'', you must bring a good pair of hiking pants. Some people don’t pay much attention to their gear and decide to walk long distances wearing stylish jeans. They might get blisters and scratches, plus jeans and other pants can feel really hot during the summer. Hiking requires a wide range of movement, so your pants must allow your legs total freedom of movement, as well as protect them from rashes and falls.''The right type of pants will depend on the activity and the season. As a general rule, good hiking pants must be durable, breathable, water resistant and wind resistant. If you’re planning to take high-altitude hikes or hikes in rainy climates, you’ll need waterproof pants and probably some extra insulation to protect yourself from temperature drops. Keep in mind that this type of pants doesn’t offer the same breathability, so I wouldn’t recommend them for warm climates. In this case, you might need two pairs of pants: a lightweight and comfortable pair for spring and summer hikes, and a warm and waterproof pair for winter adventures.''One of the biggest advantages of hiking pants is that they’re super versatile. Although they’re designed mainly for''hiking'', you can use them for backpacking, camping, fishing and many outdoor sports. You’ll see that many models are convertible; by zipping off the legs, you can turn your pants into hiking shorts in a matter of seconds – the perfect choice for travel in tropical countries.''I know, there are many options out there and it’s difficult to make the right choice. Don’t worry! You don’t have to spend hours comparing models and reviews. I’ve done it for you. I’ve created a list of the best models so you can find the one that best fits your needs.''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the best''hiking sandals'',''hiking cameras''and''hiking water bottles''.''COMPARISON CHART:''Pants''Material''Convertible''Price''Editor Rating''ARTERYX GAMMA''88% Nylon''12% Elasteno''NO''$$$''4.9''NF PARAMOUNT''100% Nylon''YES''$''4.8''PRANA CONV''97% Nylon''3% Spandex''YES''$$''4.5''PRANA ZION''97% Nylon''3% Spandex''NO''$''4.7''O.R. FERROSI''86% Nylon''14% Spandex''NO''$$''4.5''COLUMBIA SILVER''100% Nylon''YES''$''4.8''O.R. CIRQUE''50% Nylon''43% Polyester''7% Spandex''NO''$$$''4.6''WS TRAIL''100% Nylon''YES''$''4.3''FJALLRAVEN VIDDA''60% Polyester''40% Cotton''NO''$$$''4.7''MARMOT PRECIP''100% Nylon''NO''$$''4.6''A FEW THINGS TO CONSIDER:''MATERIALS''Although hiking pants can be made of different materials, nylon is the most common one. Nylon stands out over the others because it’s lightweight, breathable and quick-drying. Nylon also offers great protection against abrasion and is super durable. Some models are made of polyester, which is quick-drying and moisture-wicking. However, they’re not as durable as those made of nylon.''Most models feature a blend of several materials. I suggest that you get nylon pants with added spandex. Spandex provides extra stretch and a better range of movement than nylon pants, making it a great combination. It’s important to take this into consideration because if you buy 100-percent nylon pants, they won’t have much stretch. Nylon itself isn’t an elastic material unless it’s combined with other materials.''Nylon soft-shell is another popular type of pants because it combines wind protection and water resistance with breathability and durability. It’s super lightweight and has a great overall performance.''Some manufacturers use special blends of nylon, polyester and other materials to offer total water resistance. Some waterproof pants might also be insulated to help you fight low temperatures. On certain models, you’ll have to use products like beeswax to keep them waterproof for a longer time. Unfortunately, waterproof pants usually lack in breathability.''POCKETS''Most trekking pants have two side pockets and one or two pockets in the back. This is a personal preference, but I don’t recommend that you choose a model with too many pockets. They’re designed for hiking, so you can keep your stuff in your backpack and keep your pockets less bulky, giving you more comfort and freedom of movement. A few pockets (one single pocket on each side) might be helpful, though. You can keep a few coins, a map or some snacks at hand. Pockets have different sizes and shapes, and most of them are zippered to provide more protection.''WEIGHT''Most manufacturers try their hardest to produce lightweight pants, and they have developed amazing materials and options. For many people, hiking as light as possible is very important, so you should consider weight before you buy anything. Winter pants will be much heavier due to their extra insulation and padding. Otherwise, most models on the list are lightweight.''CONVERTIBLE PANTS''Convertible pants are a favorite choice for many hikers and adventurers. Their legs can be zipped off so that the pants become hiking shorts. This makes them super versatile for different climates and situations. Basically, you get two pants in one, which is a great way to pack lighter and adapt to temperature changes. It feels great to start a hike with comfortable shorts while having the option to add the legs if it gets colder as you get higher. We know the importance of this feature, and that’s why many pants on the list are convertible.''On the other hand, standard hiking pants usually have a nicer appearance and some hikers don’t find the zipper on convertible pants to be comfortable.''BELTS AND WAISTBAND''Most models come with a waistband and a belt to add adjustability, which is great for getting the right fit and preventing your pants from falling off when you make some movements. A good fit is important for a pleasant hiking experience.''When you’re carrying a backpack, you’ll notice that the hip belt of the backpack rests over the waistband of your pants. This can be uncomfortable, causing pain and blisters in some cases. That’s why you should look for pants with a soft lined waistband and a thin belt to prevent the pants from interfering with the backpack’s hip belt.''QUICK DRYING''Keeping your pants dry is especially important in high mountain areas in which temperatures can drop quickly. Having your pants wet and cold is a very unpleasant feeling. Unlike traditional pants or jeans, hiking pants barely absorb water. Most new models are made of nylon and tend to dry very quickly.''They’re the best option for routes on which you might need to cross a stream or when you’re hiking in rainy weather.''WATERPROOF''As we just mentioned, most trekking pants don’t hold much water and they dry quickly. However, this doesn’t mean they’re totally waterproof. Most of them are designed for hiking during the spring or summer, so they can get wet and dry while having great breathability. Their water resistance changes depending on the model and the price. Most models on this list hold light rain pretty well thanks to special water treatments.''If you need completely waterproof pants, keep in mind that they don’t breathe as well.''COMFORT''Hiking pants are among the most comfortable pants you can wear. They’re super lightweight, flexible and soft. They’re so comfortable, most people use them as everyday pants. If you like to travel from time to time, you’ll find that they feel great while you’re traveling on a bus, train or plane. They’re also a good option for visiting markets and crowded places because most models have zippered pockets, giving you extra protection against pickpockets.''TOP 10 REVIEW''ARCTERYX GAMMA LT''Material:''88% Nylon, 12% Elasteno''Pros:''Water resistant, durable, comfortable, solid construction''Cons:''Expensive, not very versatile''Recommended for:''Mountaineering, hiking in wet climates, alpine climbing''For women:''Arcteryx Gamma''“Great performance with wet weather”''Check price on Amazon''The''Arcteryx Gamma LT''pants are designed to withstand hard weather conditions. Even though they’re not totally waterproof, they have the best performance, holding rain and snow while being breathable and quick drying.''They feature a polyester waistband, zippered pockets, a DWR (durable water repellent) finish, an adjustable belt, articulated knees and a gusseted crotch. Ideal for hiking and climbing in wet areas. They’re soft-shell and breathable, but I wouldn’t recommend them for warm climates.''NORTH FACE PARAMOUNT TRAIL''Material:''100% Nylon''Pros:''Water resistant, durable, affordable, good construction''Cons:''Lack of stretch, heavier''Recommended for:''Hiking, backpacking''There is no women’s version for this model.''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''The''North Face Paramount Trail''is a great option for those who need versatile pants. They’re a bit thicker than most models on the list, so they’re warmer, more durable, wind-resistant and more versatile. A good pick for hiking, camping and backpacking trips. Features: 17-inch leg opening, convertible shorts, DWR finish, zippered pockets, elastic waistband and adjustable belt.''PRANA STRETCH ZION CONVERTIBLE''Material:''97% Nylon, 3% Spandex''Pros:''Comfortable, many pockets, versatile''Cons:''Too cold for winter''Recommended for:''Hiking in fresh to warm climates''For women:''Prana Monarch Convertible''“Super comfortable”''Check price on Amazon''The''Prana Stretch Zion convertible pants''feature original “Zion” fabric with a durable DWR finish for water protection. They’re among the most comfortable and versatile options on the list. You can wear them in fresh (no hard winters) climates and convert them to shorts when it gets warmer. They feature a quick-dry stretch fabric, an adjustable cinch belt and several pockets.''PRANA STRETCH ZION PANTS''Material:''97% Nylon, 3% Spandex''Pros:''Comfortable, durable, lots of pockets''Cons:''Short legs for tall people''Recommended for:''Camping, hiking, backpacking''For women:''Prana Regular Inseam Halle''“Stylish pants for hiking”''Check price on Amazon''The''Prana Stretch Zion pants''are the non-convertible version of the last model. They’re less versatile, but definitely more stylish and a bit cheaper. They feature a DWR treatment for water protection, quick-dry fabric and abrasion-resistant materials. A great option for general backpacking and outdoor adventures, they can hold cold fronts and they feature roll-up legs that secure with a snap in case it gets warmer.''OUTDOOR RESEARCH FERROSI''Material:''86% Nylon, 14% Spandex''Pros:''Weather resistant, comfortable, ultralight''Cons:''Small pockets''Recommended for:''Hiking, alpine climbing, wet climates''For women:''Outdoor Research Ferrosi''“Super Lightweight”''Check price on Amazon''The''Outdoor Research Ferrosi''are lightweight, comfortable and super stretchy. While they’re not convertible, they feature roll-up legs that secure with a drawcord, making them a good option for moderate-warm climates. They’re also quick drying, breathable, abrasion-resistant and weather-resistant. They have a great overall performance in both dry and wet climates.''COLUMBIA SILVER RIDGE CONVERTIBLE''Material:''100% Nylon ripstop''Pros:''Super lightweight, affordable''Cons:''Not the best water resistance, lack of stretch''Recommended for:''Hiking adventures, backpacking, warm climates''For women:''Columbia Silver Ridge''“Best for very warm weather”''Check price on Amazon''The''Columbia Silver Ridge''is one of the most popular pants among backpackers and outdoor lovers. They’re the most lightweight pants on the list, and a great option for hiking during the summer. Many people use them for backpacking in tropical countries, as they feel so light and fresh. The main drawback is that they’re made of 100-percent nylon without spandex, so there’s a lack of stretch.''OUTDOOR RESEARCH CIRQUE''Material:''50% Nylon, 43% Polyester, 7% Spandex''Pros:''Great weather resistance, good breathability''Cons:''Small pockets''Recommended for:''Alpine climbing, winter hiking''For women:''Outdoor Research Cirque''“For cool hiking”''Check price on Amazon''The''Outdoor Research Cirque pants''are designed for cool hiking, alpine climbing, skiing and other winter activities. They’re not totally waterproof, but they have great performance in wet weather. Keep in mind, though, that we’re talking about soft-shell pants, so there’s not much insulation. However, if you’re in a really cold climate, you can wear thermal leggings underneath.''WHITE SIERRA TRAIL''Material:''100% Nylon''Pros:''Inexpensive, lightweight''Cons:''Lack of stretch''Recommended for:''Hiking and backpacking in warm climates''For women:''White Sierra Point''“Affordable summer pants”''Check price on Amazon''The''White Sierra Trail pants''have a similar design and features as the Columbia Research pants. They are super lightweight, keep you cool in warm climates and are convertible. They’re also very popular for backpacking in tropical countries, camping and summer hiking. They have a great price, but you’ll find the same downsides: They’re not flexible and the design of the legs might feel a bit tight for some people.''FJALLRAVEN VIDDA PRO''Material:''60% Polyester, 40% Cotton''Pros:''Reinforced back and knees, durable, great construction''Cons:''Not water resistant''Recommended for:''Outdoor adventures, hiking in cold, dry climates''For women:''Fjallraven Vidda''“Durable and resistant”''Check price on Amazon''The''Fjallraven Vidda pants''are designed to be durable and tough. They provide special protection for the knees and back, being more resistant to scratches and falls. They’re a good choice for outdoor lovers who need extra-resistant pants. Keep in mind that they’re not water resistant, so I wouldn’t recommend them for wet climates or long hikes in which the weather might change.''WATERPROOF PANTS''MARMOT PRECIP''Material:''100% Nylon''Pros:''Best water protection''Cons:''Less breathable''Recommended for:''Hiking and outdoor sports in rainy climates.''For women:''Marmot Precip''“Waterproof hiking pants”''Check price on Amazon''Even though some models on the list have great weather resistance, the''Marmot Precip pants''are the only ones designed with totally waterproof fabric. They’re super lightweight and have decent breathability for a waterproof pant. The best option to protect you from long, rainy days. If you’re hiking in a cold climate, you can wear them with a second layer underneath to keep you warm.''SHOULD I BUY THEM OR RENT THEM?''If you’re an outdoor lover or traveler, buying a pair of hiking pants is one of the best investments you can make. Actually, they’re not even that expensive, and your hiking experience will be much better with the proper gear.''However, there are a few circumstances in which you might prefer to rent them. I remember that time I was in Ecuador; I was traveling with my Columbia pants but I was about to climb Cotopaxi volcano. Obviously, those pants were not designed to climb a 6,000-meter mountain, so I decided to rent a pair of insulated pants for that climb.''HOW TO CHOOSE THE RIGHT PANTS FOR HIKING''There are a few things to consider when choosing the best trekking pants. Most models on the list can be used for many activities besides hiking. If you’re backpacking, you can also use them for city-walking, camping in a forest, collecting wood, crossing a stream, climbing, etc.''The first thing to keep in mind is versatility. Do you want your hiking pants to be convertible? Some long pants have zippers on the sides to make them easier to put on and take off, but convertible pants are the ones giving you greater versatility.''Another important factor is mobility, which will be related to the type of sport you want to practice. Are you going to wear your pants only for hiking? Or is it possible that you will use them for climbing, running and other adventure sports? In that case, you may need tight and flexible pants to facilitate your movements.''Finally, think about the climate and temperature of the place to which you’re traveling. Some materials are more suitable for cold and rainy climates, while others are designed to be worn during the summer. This way, you’ll know whether you need a pair of ultralight pants for summer hikes or a pair of insulated, waterproof pants for cold trails.''WHICH ARE THE BEST?''As you’ve seen, there are many great options out there. If you still have some doubts, let me give you a few suggestions. If you’re looking for a pair of pants with good overall performance, to be worn in cold-to-warm climates, I’d go with the''Prana Stretch Zion Convertible''.''If you need something lightweight for very warm climates, the''Columbia Silver Ridge''might be your best option. On the other hand, if you need a pair of waterproof pants to withstand rainy climates, I’d look for the''Marmot Precip''.''Have you enjoyed The Best Hiking Pants for Men and Women? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Sunglasses for Hiking and Outdoor Spor...''Best Hiking gear list for all your treks''Tactical Watches for Military Use Review''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''If you liked this, please share it:''Are you looking for the''best trekking sandals''? You’ve come to the right place! Although most people think that hiking means going to the outdoors carrying a heavy backpack, a raincoat and heavy boots, you know it’s not necessarily like that. If you’re climbing to the top of''Cotopaxi volcano'', you might need that gear, but there are many options depending on the route and climate.''If you’re hiking in the spring or summer, you’ll need to go as light and comfortable as you can. Wearing boots during those warm months is really unpleasant. The best way to go is carrying just a''lightweight backpack'', a few t-shirts, and a pair of hiking sandals. If you have doubts about the resistance of this kind of sandal, don’t worry! They are specifically designed for hiking, and are meant to be durable and resistant. Your feet will be grateful to be protected, comfortable and fresh, all at the same time. If you need to cross a stream, they’re really easy and quick to take off, and if you want to cross the stream wearing them (which is my recommendation), they’ll dry up in a few minutes.''Even though they’re designed for outdoor sports, they’re great for travel in warm countries, too. Trekking sandals are super versatile, being a popular option among backpackers traveling to Africa, South America and Southeast Asia.''There are many options out there and it’s difficult to make the right choice. Don’t worry! You don’t have to spend hours comparing models and reviews because I’ve done it for you! I’ve created a list of the best sandals so you can find the one that best fits your needs.''Check out other buying guides to find the best''hiking sunglasses'',''pants'',''cameras''and''filtered bottles''.''COMPARISON CHART:''SANDAL''PHOTO''TOE PROTECTION''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''KEEN NEWPORT H2''YES''$''4.7''TEVA OMINIUM''YES''$$''4.6''KEEN ARROYO II''YES''$''4.7''TEVA HURRICANE XLT''NO''$''4.4''CHACO UNAWEEP Z/2''NO''$$''4.5''TEVA TERRAFI LITE''NO''$''4.6''ECCO YUCATAN''NO''$$''4.5''KEEN WHISPER''YES''$$''4.7''KEEN VENICE''YES''$''4.6''KEEN ROSE''YES''$$''4.6''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT TREKKING SANDALS''COMFORT''This is probably the most important feature of all''hiking gear''. You want your sandals to be comfortable. The latest models have incredible designs with padded straps, arch support and soft materials to provide the best hiking experience. However, keep in mind that hiking sandals aren’t the best option for technical climbing. In that case, you’ll probably need a good pair of hiking boots.''STABILITY''Thanks to the latest advances in design, trekking sandals can provide pretty much the same stability and support of traditional hiking shoes. Most brands have worked hard to produce high-quality sandals, improving stability and preventing your feet from slipping forward.''FIT AND DESIGN''Unlike hiking boots or shoes, every model has a different style of straps and fastening, as well as different protection. If you’re planning a more serious hike in which you’ll encounter rocks, sticks, vegetation, etc., I recommend that you get a model with toe protection.''Closed sandals – which look like ventilated hiking shoes – might be a great option for outdoor adventures. Other options, like open sandals, are great options for beach coast hikes or hikes along easy paths. Most models allow you to wear a pair of socks if you need them.''SOLE TRACTION''Traction is a key feature when it comes to finding the right sandals. On thousands of hikes all over the world, you might find streams to cross, muddy areas and slippery rocks. The best models are designed with special materials and are equipped with a''Vibram sole''.\xa0Vibram soles provide the best grip even on slippery terrain.''DURABILITY''Everybody wants shoes that will last for many years. This depends on the kind of use you give to them, how often you use them and how well you care for them. I have selected only models with good durability, but of course, you must take proper care of your sandals.''DRYING''One of the main advantages of these sandals is that they will dry up much faster than will regular shoes. At the same time, there are big differences between models. Some sandals have a lot of padding covering the whole foot, while other sandals have barely a few straps. Therefore, closed models will take longer to dry.''ADVANTAGES OF HIKING SANDALS:''Breathable''Fresh''Quicker drying''Good traction''Easy and quick to take on/off''Less smell''Compact / Easy to pack''DISADVANTAGES:''Less protection for your feet''Don’t protect your ankles''Too cold for certain climates''Not comfortable when carrying heavy backpacks''THE 10 BEST SANDALS FOR HIKING:''KEEN NEWPORT H2''Pros:''Price, comfort, grid''Cons:''Takes time to put on/take off''Recommended for:''Hiking with water exposure''For women:''Keen Newport H2''Check price on Amazon''The''Keen Newport H2''is one of the best sandals on this list. It’s a popular choice among hikers and adventurers because its great design and affordable price. You’re gonna love features like the toe box with sturdy protection, the bungee lacing system and the resistant sole.''You’ll see that they are super comfortable, provide great stability thanks to their firm sole, and have amazing traction. You can cross streams and get them wet without any problems. They are made from washable polyester, and are designed to dry quick and to not hold water.''TEVA OMINIUM''Pros:''Comfort and support''Cons:''Takes a long time to dry''Recommended for:''General hiking''For women:''Teva Omnium''Check price on Amazon''The''Teva Ominium''features a bungee lacing system with a quick-release buckle, a rubber sole and adjustable ankle straps. The model has been designed with an encapsuled shock-absorbing ShocPad heel to provide the greatest comfort.''This hybrid model is ultralight and breathable like a sandal, while protecting your foot like a shoe. You can use it for general backpacking, hiking and outdoor sports. Keep in mind that although it will hold in amphibious environments, it wouldn’t be your best choice for extended forays into the water.''KEEN ARROYO II''Pros:''Robust, great traction, best toe protection''Cons:''Takes a long time to dry''Recommended for:''Hiking in dry areas''For women:''Keen Arroyo II''Check price on Amazon''The''Keen Arroyo II''is probably the toughest option on the list. They feature a robust construction with great toe protection, a closed heel and a bungee lacing system with a rear pull-on loop.''They feel pretty much like hiking shoes, providing great support and stability with the advantage of being breathable. The main drawback is that they take longer to dry than do other models. The design is sturdy and resistant, and they’re meant to have great durability.''OPEN TREKKING SANDALS''TEVA HURRICANE XLT''Pros:''Versatile, adjustable''Cons:''No toe protection''Recommended for:''Hiking and backpacking''For women:''Teva Hurricane XLT''Check price on Amazon''The''Teva Hurricane XLT''is a popular choice among summer sport lovers. They won’t provide the same protection as closed sandals, but they’re ultralight and compact, and feature a great sole and traction.''Most backpackers love these sandals because they can be worn in many situations, like going to the beach, hiking or everyday footwear in tropical countries. Keep in mind that they don’t provide much foot protection if you’re planning to get into serious hikes.''CHACO UNAWEEP Z/2''Pros:''Lightweight, good arch support''Cons:''Not the best grid, no toe protection''Recommended for:''Easy hikes''For women:''Chaco Unaweep Z/2''Check price on Amazon''The''Chaco Unaweep Z/2''is specially designed for summer adventures. They’re super lightweight and versatile, featuring a contoured footbed and resistant straps with adjustable buckles.''There’s a toe strap for extra stability. They have a good sole, providing good traction and excellent arch support, but are probably not the best option for hiking on very rough paths. However, they might be a good option for short hikes along the coast or on paved trails.''TEVA TERRA-FI LITE''Pros:''Comfortable, versatile''Cons:''No toe protection''Recommended for:''Backpacking and hiking''For women:''Teva Terra-Fi Lite''Check price on Amazon''The''Teva Terra-fi Lite''is another great option for light hiking. As you can see, they’re pretty similar to the Teva Hurricane, but there are some differences.''This model also features three adjustable hook-and-loop closures, but the straps have more padding, providing greater comfort and fit. One of the top open sandals on the market.''ECCO YUCATAN''Pros:''Comfortable''Cons:''Heavy, less durable''Recommended for:''Easy hikes''For women:''Ecco Yucatan''Check price on Amazon''The''Ecco Yucatan''is sturdy and robust, and provides great support and fit. They’re not as lightweight and compact as other open sandals, but they’re super comfortable and feature padded straps.''Keep in mind that even though they’re more comfortable than most open sandals, they don’t protect your toes. In addition, they’re a bit heavy.''THE BEST MODELS FOR WOMEN:''KEEN WHISPER''Pros:''Lightweight, quick dry''Cons:''No heel protection''Recommended for:''Hiking and outdoor sports''Check price on Amazon''The''Keen Whisper''provides the perfect combination of breathability, traction and protection. They’re ultralight and easy to wear while providing great toe protection, a durable sole and durable leather construction. Thanks to they’re metatomical design, you’ll get great arch support and comfort.''They’re one of the best sandals for spring and summer treks on which you can get your feet wet often. They’ll dry up very quickly!''KEEN WOMEN’S VENICE''Pros:''Toe protection, lightweight''Cons:''Less arch support''Recommended for:''Summer hiking''Check price on Amazon''The''Keen Women’s Venice''is made from resistant leather and provides special protection and a great grid.''They feature a useful toe bumper to protect you from sticks and rocks on rough paths. They’re lightweight, breathable, durable and water resistant. Good protection and quick dry on the same sandal.''KEEN WOMEN’S ROSE''Pros:''Lightweight, nice design''Cons:''Poor stitching''Recommended for:''Everyday use, hiking, backpacking''Check price on Amazon''The''Keen Women’s Rose''features webbed-look straps, resistant soles and rubber toe bumpers. They’re easy and quick to put on/take off thanks to they’re adjustable hook-and-loop strap.''You can use them for hiking as well as everyday sandals because they’re super comfortable and have a stylish design!''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''HAVAINAS''If you need an extra pair of sandals for the beach, the''Havaianas''are by far my favorite choice. They’re super comfortable and durable. I’ve done a few short hikes wearing these sandals and found that they have great traction. However, you shouldn’t use them for hiking because they won’t last long.''Check price on Amazon''HOW TO CARE FOR YOUR SANDALS''You can lengthen the life of your sandals by following a few recommendations. Some models are not cheap, so it makes sense to take good care of them and make them last as long as possible, right?''1- Get used to your new sandals.''Before you get into the outdoors, wear your sandals around the house so you get used to them and break them in. Your hike will be more pleasant if your new sandals aren’t totally new. Otherwise, you might focus on how much they’re hurting you instead of enjoying the route!''2- Check them before each hike.''Before heading out, be sure they’re in good condition. Maybe you need to change the shoestrings or fix the straps. Whatever it is, be sure you take care of it.''3- Clean them after each hike.''Remove the debris from your sandals and keep them clean. It’s common for debris to accumulate between the straps, in the spot where the strap meets the sole, and other parts.''Using a knife or stick, remove the mud and stones from the soles.''Finally, remove all mud and dirt from the sandals. You can wash them in warm, mild soapy water. Check the manufacturer’s instructions if you have doubts about how to wash them.''4- Store your sandals.''When you’re not using your sandals, store them in a dry place away from the sun. Avoid keeping them in plastic bags.''WHY WEAR TREKKING SANDALS INSTEAD OF BOOTS''We all know the advantages of wearing boots when we head to the outdoors. Hiking boots provide great support, resistance and comfort. They’re designed to protect your feet and ankles and improve shock absorption. However, hiking boots can be hot in many situations, creating discomfort on long routes or during warm seasons.''That’s why in many cases sandals can be a better solution. They are designed to provide the greatest comfort and traction. They’re breathable and ultralight – the perfect choice for any mountain route as long as there’s not much climbing or snow, or not many big rocks.''If you’re a backpacker or traveler, trekking sandals may be your best choice. They’re much cheaper than traditional boots and can be stored in any small or medium backpack. In addition, thanks to their attractive designs, you can use them to walk cities, travel by bus or go out at night, as well as for many other activities. They’re super versatile, lightweight, compact and affordable.''HIKING SANDALS THROUGHOUT THE YEARS''Did you know that sandals are one of the oldest types of footwear in history? The first models were very simple. They had a small sole made from esparto or leather with straps around their feet or ankles. The oldest pair was found at Fort Rock Cave, in the U.S. state of Oregon, and had been made more than 10,000 years ago. In Europe, old sandals have been found in Spain, Italy, Greece and other Mediterranean countries. In fact, the word “sandal” comes from the Greek language. The Egyptians also used them, although they built them with palm leaves and papyrus.''In those times, there was no means of transportation beyond horses, so sandals were often used to walk great distances. Nowadays, we can enjoy the best materials and features thanks to new technologies. As you can see, sandals have evolved, but they have been present in our history from practically the very beginning.''WHICH ARE THE BEST SANDALS FOR HIKING?''Do you still have doubts? Let me give you a few suggestions! I think the''Keen Newport H2''has a great overall performance at an affordable price. If you’re looking for something sturdy and durable, I’d go with the''Keen Arroyo II''. For something lightweight, the''Teva Terra-fi Lite''might be your best choice.''Have you enjoyed “Hiking Sandals for Men and Women”? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''The Best Backpacking Pillows for Camping''The 10 Best Hiking Cameras 2018''Top 11 Best Lightweight Sleeping Bags for Travel, ...''If you liked this, please share it:''If you’re an adventure traveler, you’ll want to bring along a good camera to capture beautiful landscapes and experiences. Many people use their smartphones for that purpose, and I admit that the new models can capture pretty good pictures. However, if you want to get to the next level and take serious, impressive photos, I recommend that you invest in a digital camera.''Today it’s hard to determinate which is the''best camera for hiking and backpacking''. Some people would say it’s one you can easily carry without adding too much weight and one that’s quick to pull out. I partially agree. However, some cameras take better photos than others. What’s the point of having a camera you can quickly pull out and shoot with if it doesn’t take good pictures?''Making the right choice will depend on how often you’ll use the camera, its features, the environment and the price. The main types I’d recommend for''hiking''and adventure travel are action cameras, point-and-shoots, more sophisticated mirrorless cameras and digital SLRs.''It’s difficult to find a camera that has all the best features. The one that’s compact and lightweight won’t have a great sensor, and others with better photo and video features will be heavier and bulkier.''The camera market is bigger than ever. Hundreds of models are coming out every year, and it’s difficult to make the right decision. Let me help you. I’ve created a list of the best models, comparing important features and recommended us. Take a look and find the one that suits your needs.''Check out other guides to find the''best filtered water bottles'',''hiking sandals'',''GPS'',''pants''and''camping pillows''.''COMPARISON CHART:''Camera''Weight''Sensor''S. Speed''Price''Editor Rating''OLYMPUS TG-4''8.7 oz''18 MP''1080 FHD''5 fps''$''4.5''GOPRO 6''4.3 oz''12 MP''4 K60''N/A''$''4.6''SONY RX100''10.5 oz''20.1 MP''4 K''24 fps''$$$''4.8''CANON G7X''11.2 oz''20.1 MP''1080 FHD''8 fps''$$''4.7''SONY A6300''14.2 oz''24.2 MP''4 K''11 fps''$$$''4.7''SONY A7R II''22.0 oz''42.4 MP''4 K''5 fps''$$$$''4.9''OLYMPUS E-M5 II''16.5 oz''16-40 MP''1080 FHD''10 fps''$$$''4.8''NIKON 5500''16.6 oz''24.2 MP''1080 FHD''5 fps''$$''4.9''CANON REBEL T5''16.9 oz''18 MP''1080 HD''3 fps''$''4.6''NIKON D810''34.5 oz''36.3 MP''1080 FHD''5 fps''$$$$''5.0''TYPES OF CAMERAS:''RUGGED CAMERAS''– For a lot of adventure and outdoor sports –''Tough or rugged cameras have been on the market for a while, being popular among backpackers. They’re designed to be submersible down to 10 or 20 meters and withstand hard weather, hits and drops. There’s no doubt that these features make them a great choice for climbing, snorkeling, surfing, cycling, etc. However, these cameras tend to be expensive due to their solid construction and the internal components, like the sensor, aren’t the best. They’ll do the job, but don’t expect amazing image quality.''ACTION CAMERAS''– For recording high-quality video while practicing sports –''These are the GoPro-like cameras you’ve seen many times. If you take a look at the last GoPro 5, you’ll understand why it has become so popular among all kinds of travelers. It’s a great option for those who want to record high-quality videos at 4K while practicing outdoor sports. It’s small, lightweight and portable, and the batteries last for quite a while. It comes with image stabilization, so it feels more stable compared to previous models. There are many available accessories, so you can use a stick or a head mount, or even attach it to a drone.''POINT AND SHOOTS''– For entry-level photographers looking for something compact and affordable –''These digital cameras are compact, easy to use and inexpensive (most of them). They’re probably the best option if you’re looking for something ultralight with decent image quality.''Please notice that I said “decent” quality. If you’re not into technical photography, they’ll be a good option for recreational hiking and backpacking. At least, they take better photos than most smartphones do. Keep in mind that their sensors are usually 24mm at the wide end, which isn’t too good for landscape photography. If you want advanced features, changeable lenses and better optical quality, take a look at mirrorless and DSLR cameras.''MIRRORLESS''– For great performance at a reduced size –''Mirrorless cameras''are the latest revolution in the photo industry. They’ve become incredibly popular because they’re lighter than the bulkier DSLRs while offering top-end image and video resolutions. In a nutshell, they offer pretty much the same image quality as bulky reflex cameras while being ultralight and compact.''Actually, some advanced mirrorless cameras offer even better quality than DSLRs of a similar price. You can take professional photos without adding much room to your backpack. Like DSLRs, they use changeable lenses, which gives you many new possibilities, improving landscape photography.''The main downside: These cameras and their interchangeable lenses tend to be quite expensive.''DIGITAL SLR CAMERAS''– For serious photo lovers –''DIGITAL SLR''cameras are among the best cameras you can find in terms of sensor quality, features, components and lenses. These are the cameras that most professional photographers use. Keep in mind that they’re also expensive, bulky and heavy.''I love photography almost as much as I do traveling, so I make a sacrifice and always carry a DSLR camera with me. It’s a personal choice. I know it’s bulky but when I look at the photos, I know it’s worth the effort. A few months ago I bought a Nikon 5500 and I think it’s perfect for travel. It’s not as heavy as other cameras (like the Nikon 7200), it’s not expensive for its quality, it’s super versatile and it takes amazing photos.''Unless you’re planning to make a living out of photography, I’d never recommend that you buy a very expensive DSLR for backpacking and hiking. They have a solid body that makes them extra heavy. Plus, you never know … you could get robbed or lose it. Most budget DSLRs take awesome pictures. Keep in mind that you must also use a good lens.''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 BEST HIKING CAMERAS''BEST RUGGED CAMERA''OLYMPUS TG-4 TOUGH''WEIGHT:''8.7 oz''SENSOR:''16 MP''S. SPEED:''5 fps''VIDEO:''1080 FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''Equivalent 25 – 100mm''PROS:''Waterproof, resistant''CONS:''Sensor''“Super resistant”''Check price on Amazon''The''Olympus TG-4 Touch''is a good option for those who need a really resistant camera for outdoor sports.''It’s waterproof down to 50 feet, shockproof to seven feet and dustproof, and it withstands low temperatures (14ºF – 10Cº). The focal length is 4.5 – 18mm (35mm equivalent to 25 – 100mm). The widest focal length (25 mm) isn’t very wide, but it’ll do the job. If you really want to take wide landscapes, though, it’s not the best choice.''It comes with many helpful adventure features, like: underwater mode, macro mode, live composite mode, built-in Wi-Fi connectivity, GPS and compass, and action modes. Even though you can’t change lenses, it offers the option to add lens converters. You can attach a fish-eye converter to capture wide shots and a telezoom converter to extend the zoom range.''Overall, it’s portable, lightweight, versatile and resistant, and the image quality isn’t bad for a compact camera.''BEST ACTION CAMERA''GOPRO HERO 6''WEIGHT:''4.3 oz''SENSOR:''12 MP''S. SPEED:''N/A''VIDEO:''4 K60''FOCAL LENGTH:''16 – 24mm''PROS:''Water resistant, video''CONS:''Only wide focal length''“Great portability and video”''Check price on Amazon''The''GoPro Black 6''is probably the best action camera you’ll find on the market right now. It features a two-inch touch display, voice control to activate the camera and amazing high-definition 4 K60 video. Unlike other GoPro models, it’s already waterproof down to 10 meters without the need for a housing. Of course, if you want to dive deeper, housings are available for that.''It’s a great camera for backpacking, hiking and other outdoor sports because it’s super compact and ultralight, and the batteries last for a long time. It comes with an image stabilization system to capture smooth videos. The image quality of the sensor is quite good and the video resolution is impressive. The wide focal length of 16 – 24mm is perfect for adventure sports and landscape shooting.''POINT AND SHOOTS''SONY RX100 V''WEIGHT:''10.5 oz''SENSOR:''20.1 MP''S. SPEED:''24 fps''VIDEO:''4 K''FOCAL LENGTH:''24 – 70mm''PROS:''Many features''CONS:''Focal length''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''The''Sony RX100 V''has become very popular among backpackers because it’s super lightweight and compact while having excellent performance. This baby takes really good photos for a point-and-shoot camera. It has a small sensor but takes 20.1 MP images and 4 K Full HD video. It’s equipped with many features, like: 315 phase detection AF points, continuous shooting at 24 fps, super slow motion and others. A wider focal length would be more versatile for landscape shooting, but it’ll do the job.''If you’re planning to take underwater photos and videos, you can buy a housing and take it on your next dive. It’s also a fantastic camera for scuba diving.''Many reviews have rated it the best compact camera on the market.''CANON POWERSHOT G7X MARK II''WEIGHT:''11.2 oz''SENSOR:''20.1 MP''S. SPEED:''8 fps''VIDEO:''1080 FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''24 – 100mm''PROS:''Many features''CONS:''Not the best video''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''The''Canon Powershot G7 X Mark II''is another great option among point and shoots. It features a nice three-inch touch LCD display, Wi-Fi connectivity, a remote shooting system, image Sync function and others. Overall, it’s a great camera for its price. Only two cameras are in the point-and-shoot selection, so I’d like to do a little comparison here:''The Canon G7X has a bit more focal length, at a maximum 100 mm (having that extra telezoom might be helpful in some situations) and it’s much cheaper than its competitor. On the other hand, the Sony RX100 V has better overall performance. It shoots much faster, at 24 fps (compared to 8 fps), and records 4 K FHD video (compared to 1080).''Both are compact, lightweight and portable, and have good sensors with 20.1 MP that shoot impressive pictures.''MIRRORLESS CAMERAS''SONY A6300''WEIGHT:''14.2 oz''SENSOR:''24.2 MP''S. SPEED:''11 fps''VIDEO:''4 K FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''Depends on lens''PROS:''High quality''CONS:''Kit lens is not impressive''“Good deal in mirrorless”''Check price on Amazon''The''Sony A6300''is a popular choice among professional photographers. Many pros bring their Sony A6300 as a backup when they are taking outdoor photos. It’s equipped with a 24.2 MP sensor and takes impressive high-quality images and videos. At the same time, it’s weather sealed and costs much less than a pro DSLR.''It’s compact, lightweight and reliable. The kit comes with a 16 – 50mm lens, which isn’t impressive. If you want to get the best out of this camera, consider buying another lens.''SONY A7R II''WEIGHT:''22.05 oz''SENSOR:''42.4 MP''S. SPEED:''5 fps''VIDEO:''4K FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''Depends on lens''PROS:''Impressive quality''CONS:''Expensive''“Pro mirrorless camera”''Check price on Amazon''The''Sony A7R II''is a professional full-frame camera for serious photographers. Considered by many as the best mirrorless on the market, it features a high-quality CMOS 42.4 megapixel sensor that matches the quality of most professional DSLRs.''You’ll get the most advanced features, the quality of a top-end camera and the size and weight of a portable, compact device. Of course, there’s a price for all these features. It’s one of the most expensive cameras on the list.''OLYMPUS E-M5 MARKII''WEIGHT:''16.5 oz''SENSOR:''16 – 40 MP''S. SPEED:''10 fps''VIDEO:''1080 FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''Depends on lens''PROS:''Good value for the money''CONS:''No 4K video''“Great quality”''Check price on Amazon''The''Olympus E-M5 Mark II''is our last camera in the mirrorless section and it’s worth a look. It’s been a popular camera for a while because it takes very good pictures while being lightweight, compact and resistant. It features 5-axis image stabilization, 81-point selectable autofocus, a fully articulating touchscreen and a weatherproof body. It’s also quite a bit more affordable than the Sony A7R II.''It’s one of the lightest mirrorless on the list if you’re looking for high quality without adding too much weight. The only downside is that, unlike the Sonys, it records video at only 1080 Full HD instead of 4 K FHD. In any event, that doesn’t have to be a deal-breaker. 1080p HD is still great video quality.''BUDGET DSLR''NIKON 5500''WEIGHT:''16.6 oz''SENSOR:''24.2 MP''S. SPEED:''5 fps''VIDEO:''1080 FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''Depends on lens''PROS:''Great price and quality''CONS:''Not the best video''“Lightweight DSLR”''Check price on Amazon''The''Nikon 5500''is the camera I’m using right now and I’m very happy with its performance. Not only does it take impressive pictures, it also feels very light and compact for a DSLR camera. I was about to buy a Nikon 7200, which has a better sensor and image quality, but I didn’t want to carry a heavy camera during my travels.''Among DSLRs, the Nikon has the perfect balance among image quality, weight and size. It’s easy to use, and features a nice articulating touch display, built-in Wi-Fi and special effects. If you want to spend some money, you can invest in a few good lenses and take unforgettable shots.''CANON REBEL T5''WEIGHT:''16.9 oz''SENSOR:''18 MP''S. SPEED:''3 fps''VIDEO:''1080 HD''FOCAL LENGTH:''Depends on lens''PROS:''Price''CONS:''Not the best performance''“Budget-friendly DSLR”''Check price on Amazon''The''Canon Rebel T5''is a great option for entry-level photographers. It’s equipped with an 18 MP APS-C sensor that takes impressive pictures. However, if you can spend a bit more, the Nikon 5500 has a better sensor and more megapixels.''Overall, it’s a great option if you want a decent DSLR camera for a very reasonable price. Keep in mind that DSLR cameras are quite bulky.''TOP-END DSLR''NIKON D810''WEIGHT:''34.5 oz''SENSOR:''36.3 MP''S. SPEED:''5 fps''VIDEO:''1080 FHD''FOCAL LENGTH:''PROS:''Great sensor, pro''CONS:''Expensive, heavy''“Top quality”''Check price on Amazon''The''Nikon D810''is one of the best full-frame DSLR cameras you can find right now. For most people, it’s just out of reach because of the price, so I would recommend it only for professional photographers looking for the best image quality and performance.''It doesn’t record at 4K but thanks to its full-frame sensor, the 1080p videos look like real movies. Keep in mind that it’s quite heavy and expensive.''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''LIGHTWEIGHT TRIPOD''A lightweight tripod might be of great help for some types of photos and effects. If you’re planning to take one of those night photos with a nice sky full of stars, you’ll need one.''G-RAPHY BACKPACK''A camera backpack will help protect your camera from ugly weather conditions and keep it safe while you take buses and trains.''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE BUYING A CAMERA FOR HIKING AND BACKPACKING:''1- WEIGHT AND SIZE''Whether it’s a compact point and shoot or a bulky full-frame DSLR, you’ll be adding some weight to your backpack. The point here is, how much weight is acceptable to carry while backpacking? Most hikers and backpackers already bring “must-have” gear like''tents'',''sleeping bags'',''sleeping pads'',''pants'', etc. It’s up to you to decide how much gear and weight you’re bringing. I think that bringing a DSLR camera with me is the only exception I make in terms of carrying ultralight gear.''Point and shoots and action cameras are the lightest options on the list. Some models are incredibly ultralight. They don’t use changeable lenses, so even carrying all the batteries, memory cards, cables, etc., you don’t add much weight.''Mirrorless are the second lightest option. They’re certainly lighter than most DSLR cameras. However, keep in mind that you’ll probably want to use several lenses, which means carrying more gear and adding weight.''DSLRs are the heaviest cameras on the list. Budget models can actually be as light as mirrorless cameras because they feature a simple body construction. However, if you take a look at professional models, you’ll see the difference. They have reinforced bodies and advanced features that make them really heavy. I don’t recommend a top-end camera for backpacking and hiking.''2- SENSOR''If you want a camera with high image quality, you have to look at the sensor. The final result will depend on the type of sensor, the megapixels, the ISO sensitivity, the lens and other factors.''However, it’s important to highlight the fact that a good image sensor is what makes images good. Don’t assume that high-megapixel cameras take better photos because of the high number of pixels. For most people, megapixels shouldn’t matter much. A 20 MP compact camera isn’t ever going to be as good as a 12 MP Full Frame DSLR. For regular people who will look at the pictures on the computer or who will print them at 10×15 or 13×18 cm, you don’t need 32 MP!''What matters is the quality and the size of the sensor.''3- WEATHER SEALING''You need to consider whether your camera should be weather sealed. This will depend entirely on the use and the activities in which you’re planning to participate. Weather sealing reduces the exposure of the internal components to moisture, debris, water and dust. Most tough and action cameras are equipped with this feature (or provide a protection case) because they’re designed to withstand the worst conditions.''This doesn’t always mean the camera is totally waterproof but it provides better protection during hard weather conditions. If you’re in the outdoors quite often, exposed to rain, dust, etc., it might be an important feature to consider.''Otherwise, if you take good care of your camera and go hiking in poor weather just a few times a year, it can be an extra feature you don’t need.''4- LENS''Lenses are another key factor in determining image quality. Whether it’s a telezoom, a fish-eye or a fixed 50mm, the quality of the lens and its construction will make a difference in terms of the final result. Keep in mind that adjustable lenses like 18-200mm, 27-55mm, etc. are super versatile but don’t provide the same quality as fixed lens do. These are good for beginners and a good option for outdoor shooting. On the other hand, having a fixed lens means that you must change lens all the time depending on the scene and the type of photo.''Point-and-shoot cameras include built-in lenses with average quality but a really good zoom. They’re usually 24mm at the wide end, which isn’t the best option for landscape photography (but acceptable). Most mirrorless and DSLR cameras come in a kit with 18-55mm and 27-70mm lenses or similar.''WHAT’S THE IDEAL FOCAL LENGTH?''There are hundreds of lenses on the market and sometimes it’s hard to determine which lens you need. Your choice will depend on the type of photography you like and the versatility you need. Wide-angle lenses shoot a wider angle and, thus, capture a bigger part of the scene. Telephoto lenses can take photos from a distance, showing a narrow part of the scene on the sensor.''For hiking photography, you’ll want to buy a true wide-angle lens. This way, you can shoot wide landscapes and capture all the scenery. Most hiking photos are lakes, mountains and other landscapes, so 16mm to 20mm is a good length range. Anything narrower than 24mm will make you lose part of the landscape and the result won’t be very good.''If you want to take pictures of animals and people from a distance, telephoto lenses like 140mm, 200mm or 300mm would be of great help.''HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR CAMERA:''If you’re interested in prolonging the life of your new camera, follow these tips on how to keep your camera and lenses free of grit and grime. You’ll improve the functionality and durability of your photo gear. The main elements we want to avoid are dirt, dust, sand, water, smoke, extreme heat, extreme cold and humidity. I know, you’ll be shooting outdoors and won’t be able to avoid all those things. At least try to protect your camera as much as you can.''A camera backpack will be a good investment to improve its durability. You can keep other electronic gear in it depending on the size.''For cleaning the camera body, lenses, buttons, dials and touch screens, get a basic cleaning kit. You can remove dust and debris from your camera and lens with a soft-bristled brush. If you’re cleaning a lens, extend it to its maximum length so you can clean the inner part.''– Cleaning the sensor:''You can use a hand air blower to blow debris and dust off the lens and camera sensor. Don’t use pressurized air, as the high pressure can damage the sensor. Remove your lens and set your camera to “manual cleaning”. When the mirror locks up, gently use the hand blower to remove any particles. Never touch the sensor with the hand blower or your fingers. Turn off the camera and the mirror will return to its normal position.''– Cleaning your lens:''Use a microfiber tissue to clean your lens. I recommend starting in the center of the lens and moving in a circular motion. You can use isopropyl alcohol.''WHICH ARE THE BEST BACKPACKING CAMERAS?''Do you still have doubts? Let me give you a few suggestions. If you want a lightweight camera with good image quality, the''Sony RX 100V''might be your best option. For those looking for high image quality at a reasonable price and weight, the''Sony A6300''has incredible performance.''If you want a DSLR camera with great resolution and at a good price, the''Nikon 5500''will be the perfect choice.''Have you enjoyed the Top 10 Cameras for Hiking? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''Top 11 Best Lightweight Sleeping Bags for Travel, ...''Top 10 Travel Backpacks 2018''Tactical Watches for Military Use Review''If you liked this, please share it:''If you are thinking about''traveling to Myanmar''(formerly Burma), I recommend that you do it as soon as possible. After the military junta released the oppositionist leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and changed the uniform for the suit and tie, the country has experienced great changes in terms of tourism and international relations.''Ten years ago there were only a few foreigners who visited this beautiful country. Nowadays, most backpackers include it in their routes through Southeast Asia and combine it with destinations such as Thailand, Cambodia and Indonesia.''And it’s no wonder why. The country is''spectacular!''I’m not talking only about landscapes; its people are also amazing. Despite all they have gone through (poverty, hunger and dictatorship), they are open, honest and very friendly.''Among the highlights of this country you can find the countless temples of Bagan, the multifaceted city of Yangon with its huge pagodas, the scenic landscapes of Inle Lake, the spiritual life of Buddhist monasteries and the tribal diversity of the northern villages.''If you want to visit a country with an amazing history, an ancient culture, beautiful landscapes and fascinating people, I recommend that you put Myanmar on your bucket list right now!''20 Photos That Will Make You Want to Travel to Myanmar''Have you enjoyed\xa020 Photos that will make you want to travel to Myanmar? Please, leave a comment!''If there is one continent that fascinates and surprises me more with every visit I make, that continent is Africa. I fell in love with the continent during my first trip out of Europe, when I went to Mali and Burkina Faso back in 2008. I will tell you now that it can be a pretty “heavy” experience as a first trip, but it is certainly worth it.''During my last visit to Africa I had the chance to''travel from Morocco to Guinea-Bissau''and enjoy the crazy Guinean carnival.''The trip itself was something unexpected. I was''woofing''in the Canary Islands when I found this message on''Lonely Planet’s''travel forum:''“Hi there, we are two people driving from Spain to Guinea-Bissau for the carnival. If you wanna join us and share the gas expenses, you’re welcome!”''‘Wow! There we go,’ I thought. I emailed the guy and told him he could count on me. I took a plane and flew to Morocco. I traveled the country for two weeks, then went to Tangier, where I would join them. And so the adventure began!''This is an incredible overland trip. Along the entire route, the scenery is spectacular; you can go from green mountains to sandy deserts in a few kilometers, and from crowded markets to sterile plains within minutes.''In addition, the people are very photogenic. From the turbans of the Tuareg to the colorful clothing of those living in sub-Saharan Africa, every village is full of life, art and African expression.''CROSSING MOROCCO''Before meeting up with the other guys, I stayed in Chefchaouen for a week. This mountain village, is in my opinion, among the top three most beautiful towns in the world. Don’t miss it if you visit Morocoo. Then I went to Tanger (which is only two hours away) to join the guys with the car.''Beautiful Chaouen!''The first part of the road trip was pretty quick. The carnival was on the eighth of February and we had little time to complete the trip, so we could not make many stops.''We did have to stop in Rabat, where we would get our visa for Mauritania. In the past, you could get the visa at the border, but now it is necessary to go to the Mauritanian Embassy in Rabat.''The guys in the embassy were extremely unfriendly and my French was pretty pathetic, so we had some communication problems, but eventually we all left with a nice visa.''Marrakech was one of the stops I enjoyed the most. I’ve visited this city about four times, but every time I go there I find it more amazing than the last. If you haven’t been there, you have to go and see it with your own eyes. How can it be that a country so close to Spain could be so different? It is really another world!''The''Djemaa el Fna square''is one of those places that take your breath away. The surrounding medina is a maze of shops, people, bikes, motorbikes, spices, smells and general chaos. It’s just amazing!''There was no time to visit Essaouira, but I also recommend it as one of the places not to miss in Morocco.''Essaouira is a great place for photo lovers!''The good thing about traveling by car is that we could stop wherever we wanted. Thus, we ended up in villages where very few foreigners go and the local people were pretty friendly. In addition, the markets in southern Morocco are very enjoyable. You can see different characters buying goats, camels and other animals.''Southern Morocco''Looking for a new camera?''Check out the''Best Travel Cameras'', by Tom from Adventure in You.''CROSSING THE WESTERN SAHARA''The main road runs along the desert coast of this former Spanish colony that sees barely more activity than camels traveling across the plentiful sand.''The most beautiful part of this scenic route is found near Dakhla, where a beautiful turquoise bay attracts hundreds of flamingos and some fishermen. Interestingly, the environs of the town also attract hundreds of European retirees who come with their caravans to spend the winter.''We could not visit Dakhla because there were some protests going on (very common between the Saharawi people and the Moroccan government) and the military had taken the city with its tanks.''OUR QUICK VISIT TO MAURITANIA''For as long as I can remember I had wanted to visit Mauritania. It’s a shame the visit was too short. A year before our crossing through Mauritania, a group of Spaniards had been kidnapped on the same road we were about to cross. The country’s situation was potentially volatile and there were hardly any foreigners in the area because of the high risk of kidnapping.''Thus, we crossed the country by making just one stop to overnight in Nouakchott. After fixing the car, which had some mechanical problems, we continued down to Senegal.''Nouakchott''is the typical African city, but with an extra dose of “everything is a mess.” If you’ve ever traveled to Africa, you know what I’m talking about: broken streets with huge holes, houses that are falling apart, shanty towns, street markets made of wood and plastic, etc.''What I really liked about this city is its ethnic and cultural diversity. You can find characters with Arabic style, the typical Mauritanians with their elegant blue tunics or the sub-Saharan Africans in colorful clothing. It’s an incredible fusion!''The infinite desert of Mauritania''GETTING INTO SENEGAL AND THE GAMBIA''Getting into Senegal by car was a long and complicated process. A few years ago many Europeans bought old cars and drove to Africa to sell them for twice the price. This resulted in many African countries having the oldest and crappiest cars in the world. Some governments took action on the matter.''Nowadays, all cars older than five years must get a “carnet de passage,” which means that the car must leave the country within a specified time or you\xa0will have to pay a fine.''The point is that the border controls of northern Senegal are among''the most corrupt in the world'', which means you have to pay to cross them. You have to pay if you want the “carnet de passage.” If you want to cross without the “carnet,” you have to pay more. If the guy at the border isn’t having a good day, you have to pay double.''Due to the process of discussions and bribes, we spent quite a few hours there. At the same time, we encountered some epic and memorable moments, like when one of the customs officers showed his hand to ask for money and Vicen, the driver of my car, put a toilet paper roll on his hand. The man was so angry that he locked the barrier we had in front of the car.''In the end, after paying a few dollars, we got into Senegal. We overnighted in Saint Louis, which is a nice town with a French twist, and then continued to Gambia.''St.Louis, Senegal''The Gambia''is a long, narrow country that looks like a tongue inside Senegal. You can cross it within hours. I appreciated the change of language; Senegal uses French as its official language (so I could not understand anything), while Gambia uses English.''One of the best things about crossing The Gambia was taking the ferry across the beautiful and wild river named after the country (or maybe the country was named after the river?). At that point of the journey, the landscapes were much greener and the environment 100 percent African.''We again got into Senegal and arrived at''Ziguinchor''. The capital of the Casamance region is an interesting city with a nice river, quite local activity and some sightseeing. Near there you can find the village of Kafountine, where I spent over a month learning French (or trying to, at least) when I came back from the Guinean carnival.''Dusty Ziguinchor''Sunset at Ziguinchor''THE CARNIVAL OF BISSAU''Finally we got to Bissau, the Guinean capital, which is a very strange place. Portuguese is the official language, a legacy from colonial times, and the country has a Brazilian vibe in a few aspects. The citizens love Cabo Verdean and Brazilian music, and the Brazilian caipirinha is a very popular drink.''Fish Market in Bissau''A friend we met on the way''On the other hand, it is not a touristy destination at all. The only white people you will see on the streets tend to be expats or drug dealers. (Bissau is a new stop on the “coca routes” from America to Europe, and I heard some people talking with a Colombian accent on the street. Coincidence?)''Even during the carnival, which must be the most touristy celebration of the year, I could count all the white people in the street with one hand.''As for the carnival, I can’t explain it in words.''It was awesome!''I’m going to write another post to tell you about it, because it was one of the best experiences I’ve had in years.''It was really amazing! A mixture of energy, dancing, music and African magic in all its glory!''OVERLANDING WEST AFRICA: PRACTICAL INFORMATION''KILOMETERS FROM TANGIER TO BISSAU''3.700 km''DURATION''9-10 days''GAS EXPENSES''240 euros (80 euros per person)''VISAS FOR EUROPEANS AND USA CITIZENS''MOROCCO – SAHARA''90 days without visa''MAURITANIA''15 days transit visa, $30 – $40. It is handled by the Embassy of Mauritania in Rabat. Hours 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. It is collected the next day from 2 p.m. I recommend going early because there are usually a lot of people.''I heard that you can get the visa at the border now. Check out the current situation.''SENEGAL''Visa at the border. 90 days, $50.''GAMBIA''This changes frequently. I’ve crossed this border a few times paying only 1,000 francs (1.5 euros), but now they are asking for a regular visa payment, about 20 euros.''GUINEA-BISSAU''30-day visa, 30 euros. It is handled at the Embassy of Guinea in Ziginchor. It usually takes about three days, but the ambassador is a pretty cool guy and you can get it done in one day if he likes you.''Tips for Traveling from Morocco to Guinea-Bissau''BRING PLASTIC BARRELS''The gasoline is very cheap in the Western Sahara because it is subsidized by the Moroccan government. It costs about 0.40 euros per liter. Bring some barrels and fill them up so you can use that gas later.''PATIENCE''Remember that it is not an easy journey. Sometimes things do not work, roads are in poor condition or you have to argue for hours with corrupt officers.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before crossing Africa. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''ENJOY''Despite the drawbacks, it is a very special trip, with a unique charm and hardly any tourists. Enjoy L’Afrique!''Did you enjoy How to Travel Overland in West Africa: Road Trip from Morocco to Guinea? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Venezuela is a destination that everyone should visit. From idyllic Caribbean beaches to surreally shaped mountains, this country has virtually everything. It’s a shame the economic situation and increasing insecurity don’t help the country’s tourism.''After traveling for four months in the land of Simon Bolivar, I got to explore some really beautiful places like Mount Roraima and Angel Falls. The''climb to Mount Roraima''is completely different from any other trek you’ve done. Actually, Mount Roraima inspired Sir Arthur Conan Doyle to write the famous novel “The Lost World” as its landscapes seem taken from another planet. If you get to see it with your own eyes, you’ll know what I’m talking about.''The tepuis (“mountain of the gods” in the indigenous Pemon language) are the oldest exposed formations on the planet. These table-shaped mountains are found around the borders of Brazil, Guyana and Venezuela, and create wonderful landscapes of rock cliffs and endless waterfalls.''Would you like to know what the most fascinating hike in the world looks like?''Get into the Venezuelan “Gran Sabana” and complete the''hike to Mount Roraima''on a budget, without a tour!''Most agencies charge about $200-$300 for the whole trek (which usually includes transportation, guides, porters and food), but my friend Jabi and I decided to do it independently, in the backpacker style!''Note:''Even if you don’t take a tour, keep in mind that you should always go with a guide. The summit of Mount Roraima is a real maze!''Route details''Time:''5-6 days''Difficulty:''Moderate (medium-high if you don’t have much experience)''Maximum Elevation:''2,810 meters''Hike to Mount Roraima. Itinerary 6 days''Day 1:''Paraitepuy – Tek River Camp''Day 2:''Tek River Camp – Base Camp''Day 3:''Base Camp – Roraima’s Top''Day 4:''Explore the Top, Triple Border''Day 5:''Roraima’s Top – Tek River Camp''Day 6:''Tek River Camp – Paraitepuy – Santa Elena''First stage: Get to Paraitepuy and find a guide''This was strangely the most difficult part of the adventure. If you go with an agency, they will take you by jeep to Paraitepuy, but we had to get there on our own. There is a bus leaving from Santa Elena that takes you to the junction, at''San Francisco de Yuruaní''.''There should be some public transport from San Francisco to Paraitepuy in the morning, but we did not find any. Finally, we ended up walking pretty much all the way from San Francisco to Paraitepuy. This walk is terrible. It’s a dusty road with full sun exposure. If you bring a light backpack it’s alright, but we were carrying absolutely everything (a lot of kilos). That was a mistake.''We decided to stop a few kilometers before Paraitepuy because it was getting dark (and because we were broken). The next morning we saw a jeep coming and fortunately got a lift to Paraitepuy.''First stage done.''Balance of harm: Blisters on both feet and a rash on the legs. Well, it could have been worse!''Once in the village it took us 10 minutes to get a guide. Any of the young villagers will take you to the mountain for a reasonable price. We did not hire a porter, though, just a guide for about $10 a day. After signing up in the guestbook, we were en route!''Tip:''Leave all your heavy stuff in Santa Elena and bring a light backpack. You should get to San Francisco very early, find a jeep and ask for a ride to Paraitepuy in exchange for a few dollars.''Second stage: The Hike to Mount Roraima''Day 1: Paraitepuy – Tek Camp''The first day was pretty quiet. The trail was surrounded by huge savannah while the mountains started rising in the background. The tepuis of Roraima and Kukenán welcomed us to a landscape like that in science fiction.''The trail was well marked. Actually, it would be very easy to get up there on your own. The problem is that the top of Roraima is a real maze and you would be unable to move around it without a guide. In addition, the top usually gets pretty cloudy, making it even more challenging. Basically, you have to take a guide for six days when you need one for only one or two days.''That’s the price for exploring the top of the mountain, and believe me, it’s worth it!''Roraima on the right, Kukenan on the left.''Day 2: Tek Camp – Base Camp''After having breakfast at the Tek camp, we kept on our way up. This was a day with beautiful scenery. Step by step we were approaching the two tepuis and getting into the “lost world”. We started to pass the tepui Kukenán on our left and could see several waterfalls coming down its huge cliffs. We reached the base camp and were literally at the foothills of Roraima.''Getting closer!''Day 3: Base Camp – Roraima Summit''Although it was not particularly technical, this was a long day, hiking from the 1,900 meters of the base camp to the 2,800 meters of the top. The ascent is done along a natural ramp formed on the mountain that climbs from right to left.''Sometimes the path was muddy and slippery; other times it was full of huge and uncomfortable stones. The most beautiful part of this path was walking below a waterfall that fell from the top.''Finally, we reached the Roraima plateau and got to our hotel (that’s what the guides call the caves where they usually camp). Once we were settled, our guide took us to enjoy the sunset at the nearby Kukenán viewpoint.''Just after passing the waterfall''The Grand Hotel Roraima''Kukenan viewpoint''Day 4: Exploring the summit of Mount Roraima''As you can imagine, this was the highlight of the expedition! The summit of Roraima is huge and there are many places you can visit. Our guide took us to the Maverick (the highest point of Roraima), the triple border and the Guácharo viewpoint.''Each place was special and unique, but I have to admit that the Guácharo viewpoint left me breathless. It’s a great place to take the typical “sitting-on-the-edge-of-the abyss” photo. The problem is that it’s 800 meters high, and between the vertigo, the wind and your friend having issues to focus on… those seconds sitting there feel very long. In the end it’s worth it (as long as you don’t fall, of course).''The visit to the triple border was also quite interesting because we walked along the summit and saw several rocks with cool shapes. Moreover, the famous triple border is merely a milestone with the names of the three countries. But if you climb over the milestone… you are in three countries simultaneously, which doesn’t happen every day, right?''This is what I mean by being in three countries at the same time!''In addition to those places, the top itself is a great place to explore. It’s a large flat surface with very strange rock formations, flora and fauna. Many animal and plant species are endemic and therefore unique to that mountain. Isn’t that crazy? I remember some nice little black frogs that I could find easily, and also huge spiders, carnivorous plants and hundreds of quartz minerals everywhere. It really seems like another world!''Day 5: Summit of Roraima – Tek Camp''The last day on the top we woke very early and went to visit the window, a viewpoint situated on the face of Roraima opposite the Kukenán tepuy. I loved that place too. It’s a shame that it was quite cloudy and we could barely see Mount Kenunán, but the views of the cliffs were really spectacular.''After that, we visited the pools (also known as the Jacuzzi) and returned to the camp. We had breakfast, picked up our stuff and began our way back to the “normal world”. We overnighted again at the Tek camp.''Day 6: Tek Camp – Paraitepuy – Santa Elena''Our plan was to go back as quickly as possible. Our guide told us that most jeeps get to Paraitepuy very early and often return to Santa Elena without passengers. Knowing that, Jabi and I woke at 4:00 in the morning and left the Tek camp. Once in Paraitepuy we saw a few jeeps coming by and negotiated a ride back to Santa Elena with one of the drivers.''And so ended''one of the best adventures of my life''! The hike to Mount Roraima is an experience that I highly recommend to everyone!''Budget for Hiking Mount Roraima''We completed the trek for about''$50 per person'', including food and a guide. That’s the cheapest option, but you need to bring your own tent, sleeping bag, etc. Anyway, talking about budgets in Venezuela doesn’t help much. I mean, if you’re reading this now, tomorrow the bolivar (their currency) can cost half what it does today.''ACCOMMODATION DURING THE TREK''The Tek camp, the base camp and the hotel at the top belong to Mount Roraima National Park. There are designated camping areas but no toilets. Drinking water is found in the nearby rivers.''FOOD''We brought our own food. You can find supermarkets and shops in Santa Elena, but keep in mind that there is virtually nothing in San Francisco and Paraitepuy.''TRANSPORT''If you go by yourself, you’d better take an early bus from Santa Elena to San Francisco. Jeeps with tourists can appear in San Francisco at about 8:00 am, and it is very likely that they will give you a lift to Paraitepuy.''Ask the driver: “me das la cola por favor?” (That’s how they ask for a ride in Venezuela.)''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Venezuela. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''WEATHER. WHEN TO HIKE MOUNT RORAIMA''The dry season runs from December to March. During these months the weather is better but there are not many waterfalls. We went there in July and had a bit of everything: rain, clear skies and many waterfalls coming down the cliffs.''I heard that during the rainy season it can be quite difficult to cross a few rivers, compromising the entire trek.''TIPS FOR HIKING MOUNT RORAIMA''BRING PLASTIC SHIELDS AND MOSQUITO REPELLENT''The weather of the region is rather unpredictable. You’ll have to cross several rivers (with the water going up to your waist), walk in the rain, travel through slippery areas and even pass below a waterfall. Bring a raincoat and plastic sleeves for your camera and other belongings!''Don’t forget the mosquito repellent. The place is just infested by very small and annoying mosquitos. Little fuckers!''DON’T WALK FROM SAN FRANCISCO TO PARAITEPUY''Try not to walk from San Francisco to Parateipuy. Seriously, that walk killed me. As I said before, get to San Francisco as early as you can and find someone to take you to Paraitepuy.''INCLUDE THE GUÁCHARO VIEWPOINT ON YOUR EXPEDITION''Once at the top of Roraima there are many spectacular places to visit. I recommend that you visit the Guácharo viewpoint, where you’ll get the most amazing views ever!''Did you enjoy How to Hike Mount Roraima on a Budget? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''How to Climb Iliniza Norte: All you need to know''Climbing Cotopaxi volcano on a budget. Trekking Ec...''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''Trekking the Huayhuash Circuit on a budget. Peru&#''South America is a wild, unique and surprising destination. However, after a few years wandering around the continent, I noticed that some countries are especially popular among tourists while others get barely a few visitors.''Venezuela''is one of them. This has its pros and cons, of course.''The transport infrastructure is very basic and there are almost no hostels in the country. But try to imagine a place like Angel Falls in''Peru''. It would be a crazy spot full of tourists, agencies, cheaters, and gift shops (like Cusco,''Machu Picchu'', etc.).''Angel Falls''has absolutely nothing to do with that. It must be one of the most spectacular places on earth, and you can enjoy it almost on your own. Seriously, I think there were, like, seven people total when I was there. I recommend that you visit this amazing place right now, while it is not touristy. Who knows? Maybe in a few years it will be as crowded as Iguazú or Perito Moreno.''Where are the highest waterfalls in the world?''Salto Angel is in''Canaima National Park'', in the state of Bolivar in the''Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela''. (Is it me or is everything called Bolivar in Venezuela?) The region is also known as Gran Sabana and borders Brazil and Guyana. It is a really beautiful place full of tepuys and rivers. Tepuys are table-shaped mountains that create surreal landscapes of endless waterfalls cascading from the rock cliffs.''If you want to experience what it feels like to hike one of those tepuys, do not miss the''hike to Mount Roraima''. It’s an unforgettable experience!''The Lagoon of Canaima''Is it safe to travel to Venezuela right now?''That’s a difficult question, but it’s the first thing everybody asks me when we talk about Venezuela, so I’m gonna get my feet wet and answer it.''For the question of whether it is safe, the answer is: “not too safe”. But I’d say''it’s not as bad as it’s portrayed to be''. I think that by using a little common sense and taking precautions, it should be all right.''Anyway, Rio de Janeiro is not a safe city, either. It’s the only place in the world where I have been robbed, and there are assaults and murders there every day. However, it must be one of the most touristy destinations in all of South America. And why is that? Well, they really know how to sell their image. So, you see this T.V. commercial of Rio, where guys are playing football on Ipanema beach, the statue of Christ is in the background and hot girls are dancing the samba and it looks like everything is just fine.''What I mean is that you must be a little careful everywhere you go, but do not get paranoid. If you have already visited Brazil or Colombia, I think you are ready to travel to\xa0Venezuela. If you live there for 30 years, you might have some problems (though not necessarily), but if you are on a two- or three-week visit, everything should be OK.''How can I get to Angel Falls?''There is a little town within the huge Canaima Park that is also called Canaima. This town is the starting point of all tours to Angel Falls and other nearby attractions.''There are no roads to Canaima, so you must fly. The cheapest way to get there is by flying from Puerto Ordaz or Ciudad Bolivar. (Again, is it me or is that another place named after Bolivar?)''The flight is quite an adventure. They use very small aeroplanes (three to five seats) and they move a lot. The price is''about $45 one way''. Anyway, it doesn’t make much sense to talk about prices in Venezuela because its currency devalues at lightning speed.''Yes, I’m the copilot! haha.. only in Venezuela!''Views from the plane window''Can I visit Angel Falls on my own?''No.''You must go by boat upriver for more than three hours to get to Angel Falls, and only the guides know the way. It is also part of a protected reserve. The easiest, most logical, most comfortable and most economical way to get there is by taking a tour.''Going upriver!''How much does it cost to visit Angel Falls? How do I prepare for the trip?''It’s difficult to know how much it would cost today. I paid''about $80 for the tour'', which typically lasts three days. This includes accommodation, food, guide and transportation (not including the flight P.Ordaz – Canaima).''It’s always cheaper to book the tour at the airport agencies in Ciudad Bolivar or Puerto Ordaz, and not in city agencies. You can also book it in the town of Canaima for the same price.''I know people who had booked it in Caracas, including flights, etc., and they paid more than $500. That is way too much. My advice is that you get to the Puerto Ordaz airport early, ask for prices from a few agencies, bargain a bit and book it there. This way, you’ll get to Canaima in the morning and can start the tour that day.''What do I see on the tour?''Although there are several options, most people go for the three-day, two-night tour. During that time you’ll visit Angel Falls (obviously), the lagoon of Canaima and several waterfalls like Hacha, Sapo and Sapito. One of the nights you’ll sleep in the camp near Angel Falls and the other you might sleep in Canaima or some other camp.''The three-day tour''is well worth it''. Everyone comes here with an obsession to see Angel Falls, but I promise there is much more. The whole region is incredibly beautiful. In addition to Auyantepuy, which is the mountain where Angel Falls is located, there are hundreds of similar mountains all around. The place is full of tepuys, waterfalls, rivers and lagoons.''And, of course… Angel Falls''What is the best time of year to visit this paradise?''This is an important factor to keep in mind when planning a visit to Angel Falls. The place is spectacular at any time, but the waterfall looks more exuberant with a great water flow.''The rainy season is usually between June and November. During this time, the water flow is usually greater, but you have more chances to experience a cloudy sky.''After November, it is very likely that the Carrao River will not be navigable anymore. The only way to see Angel Falls then would be by overflying the place.''We went there in July and although it had not rained much that year, we were able to go up the river and get to the base of Salto Angel. I admit that watching it from below is really impressive. Remember, it is a 979-meter fall. Almost a kilometer!''Is it worth taking the overflight?''Definitely.''You can’t miss the overflight. If you can, tell the pilot to fly over the mountain, getting close to the top and passing just above the waterfall. Ufff … My hair stands on end just remembering it!''We paid about''$25 for the flight'', which lasts about 30 to 40 minutes. Seriously, it was one of the best investments I ever made.''Should I bring dollars, pesos, bolivars, euros?''Above all,''do not take money from the ATM''. That’s because you’ll get the official exchange rate, and that would ruin you. Bring dollars or euros and change them in the black market.''When I say black market, please don’t imagine guys in an alley in Albania, dealing with AK-47s, bodily organs or opium, or trafficking in women. Almost everybody changes dollars in Venezuela. Ask in your hostel, hotel or any jewelry store and you will have your money changed in five minutes.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Venezuela. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''I hope this article has helped you. The Bolivar, the official currency (Bolivar, of course), devalues amazingly fast. If you have just visited Salto Angel or if you live in Venezuela and you think that some of the prices are not correct, I would appreciate it if you would leave a comment.''Did you enjoy “All you need to know before you visit Angel Falls, Venezuela”? Please, leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''How to Hike Mount Roraima on a Budget''If you liked this, please share it:''I bet somebody has already told you not to miss the''Kalaw to Inle Lake trek''during your travel in Burma, right? This hike has become very popular among travelers and it’s no wonder why.''I truly enjoyed both the route itself and the amazing days we spent at the famous''Inle Lake''. It’s a special place where it seems as though no time has passed. It’s really worth a visit!''On the other hand, I have to be honest. The landscapes are not the most impressive ones you’ll have seen in your life. With the exception of Inle Lake, the route is not too spectacular. I guess those mountains were quite beautiful years ago. Nowadays, with the extensive agriculture and uncontrolled logging (it’s incredible the number of Chinese trucks loaded with timber that you can see throughout the country), some parts of the country reminded me of Andalusian olive farms rather than subtropical mountains.''So, why does everyone love this hike? Easy…''because of its people!''It’s amazing how the people of this country can be so friendly. The beauty of this hike is that it allows you to walk through their lands and villages, stay in their houses, and share a cup of tea and lots of smiles with them.''I get the feeling that''Burma''must be like Thailand or Cambodia 30 years ago. Everything’s very basic, with little industrial development and a lot of handmade, agricultural and livestock work. What is clear is that its people are not tired of visitors yet, as happens in some neighboring countries, and they keep welcoming us with joy.''Enjoy the Kalaw to Inle Lake trek! This is Myanmar, the land of smiles!''Transport. How do I get to Kalaw?''There are several buses going to Kalaw from cities like Yangon or Mandalay. There are also a few buses departing from Bagan.''We took the Bagan – Kalaw bus after visiting the amazing city of 4,000 temples.''The trip takes''about 9-10 hours''. For a change, we took the crappiest bus, so we had no air conditioning, thanks to God (or to Buddha). I tell you this because some buses can be as cold as Alaska when they turn on the AC. Bring a sweater or blanket if you’re going to take the AC bus.''The price should be around''10,000 – 15,000 MMY''.''Where can I stay in Kalaw?''Kalaw has become quite popular among travelers lately. In fact, the number of visitors to Myanmar is rapidly increasing every year.''There is a wide array of hotels and lodges. Once again, we stayed in one of the crappiest hostels in town, the''Golden Lily House''. It’s a very basic place with an authentic atmosphere and a very reasonable price.''The double room costs''about $7'', with breakfast included.''There are several trekking companies… any recommendations?''The most famous agencies are''Ever Smile''and''Sam’s Family''. If you walk around Kalaw, you’ll see that there are many other agencies. I think most of them offer a very similar tour, but the prices might vary slightly.''We had met a couple of friendly travelers and they were going with Sam’s Family, so we ended up going with them.''Our experience with Sam’s was very good. Both Uncle Sam and the guide were very friendly, and the price was OK.''How much does it cost? What’s included?''We paid about''$\xa012 \xa0per person per day'', including food, accommodation, guide and the boat transport on Inle Lake.''In addition, almost all agencies take your backpack to the hostel of your choice on Inle Lake. This means you have to carry only a small backpack with the necessary stuff for three days. Once you arrive in Inle, your backpack is waiting for you.''The hike is completed in three days. Usually, you’ll sleep in a local house (homestay) on the first night and in a Buddhist monastery on the second night. The monastery experience was very interesting. Not that there were many monks to interact with, but there were a few. The monastery was close to a village, so it was nice to talk to the locals, anyway.''To access Inle Lake you must pay a''$10 entrance fee''.''Can I do the hike by myself?''Yes. You can do this trek independently without any problem. In fact, if we had known beforehand that it was so simple, we would have done so.''We met a couple from Israel doing the hike without guides and they had no problems. Of course, they sometimes had questions about which path to follow, but the area is quite populated, so it’s easy to find people to ask.''The only thing you have to keep in mind is that in Myanmar it’s forbidden to host tourists in your house without a proper license. That means you cannot stay anywhere. Ask the villagers and they will tell you which houses are licensed homestays, so you can spend the night there.''What does the three-day Kalaw-to-Inle hike look like?''FIRST DAY:''The first day was a lot of fun. Shortly after leaving Kalaw, we arrived at a small town in which they were celebrating a wedding. They invited us into one of the houses and offered us food, cigarettes… and above all, lots of drinks! Ha-ha… the fiancé’s father was quite “tipsy” (more like drunk) and we laughed a lot with him. He insisted that we stay for the celebration and offered us the house to sleep in. It was a shame that we had to keep going, because I’d have stayed, for sure.''We continued our way around arid landscapes, scattered villages and lots of people working the land. Later, we arrived at the homestay and spent the night in the beautiful local house.''Smoking and drinking at the wedding''The fiancé’s father''SECOND DAY:''The landscape didn’t change much along the trek, but there were always villages and nice characters on our way. Sometimes they just smiled, other times they stopped to greet you, shake hands with you or take a picture with you. They are great people! It’s crazy when kids come from everywhere, jumping, asking for photos or hanging from your arms!''Finally, we arrived at the monastery, a beautiful place with lots of peace of mind and tranquility.''THIRD DAY:''The last day we didn’t walk much. We reached a small port on Inle Lake, where we paid the tourist tax and embarked for Nyaung Shwe (or whichever town where you’ll be staying).''There are some nice resorts on the lake. However, if you are backpacking, most people stay in Nyaung Shwe, which is the main village. It’s also the place with more activity, markets, shops, etc. It’s a small town with a lot of character.''Local market at Inle Lake''Weather. What is the best season for hiking from Kalaw to Inle?''The rainy season runs from June to September. During these months, it’s still possible to complete the hike. However, you can expect showers.''From October to January is the coolest season. These months are ideal for this route because there is little rain and the landscapes are still very green.''From February to May is the hottest season. However, being at that altitude, we are talking about bearable temperatures. On the other hand, the landscapes are quite dry.''Tip: Enjoy the simplicity of the place.''You will find no luxuries on this route. You’ll sleep on an old mattress on the floor of the houses and walk along dusty paths. And as I said before, the landscapes are not even spectacular until you reach the lake.''The idea of this trip is to enjoy its people, the simple things, the smiles of the children, and share a cup of tea with the locals. It’s a great opportunity to realize that it doesn’t take much to be happy in this life. Many of our needs are aren’t, in fact, necessary; we have simply created them. The beauty of doing this route and meeting these people is just that… It will make you appreciate the most important things in life.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Myanmar. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Don’t miss''4 Reasons to Visit Kyaiktiyo Pagoda'', written by Joan from Against the Compass.''Have you enjoyed “How to Complete the Kalaw to Inle Lake Trek”? Please, leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''How to Climb Iliniza Norte: All you need to know''A Guide to Glacier National Park''How to Hike the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek f...''20 Photos That Will Make You Want to Travel to Mya...''If you liked this, please share it:''After the wonderful visit to the temples of Bagan, the city of''Mandalay''and''Inle Lake'', it was time to get a bit off the beaten track. That’s how we ended up in the small town of Namhsan, ready to hike the mountains for three days and reach Hsipaw, in the''heart of the Shan state''in Myanmar.''Although there are many areas in the region that restrict access for foreigners, the area around Hsipaw tends to be calm and safe. In any event, I recommend that you get updated information before you go there because restrictions may change from one day to the next.''Transport. How to get to Namhsan and Hsipaw''Several buses travel''from Mandalay to Hsipaw''every day. The journey takes about six hours and costs around''5,000''or''6,000 Kats''. Hsipaw can also be reached by train.''From Hsipaw to Namhsan''you have to take a Jeep. There is only one Jeep leaving every day and the ride is quite uncomfortable. It is on a road full of dust, holes and bumps. If you go during the dry season, be prepared to get covered in dust up to your ears.''The ride takes about''six hours''and costs''7,000 Kats''.''What can I visit in Hsipaw?''The town of Hsipaw is not particularly beautiful. However, there are several places nearby that are worth a visit.''Little Bagan''is a nice archaeological site with small temples and pagodas. It’s not as impressive as Bagan, but it’s a cool place to visit and chat with the locals.''I found the''Hsipaw market''also very interesting. It’s a fascinating place where you can find almost everything! A mix of strange food, second-hand clothes and lots of Chinese trinkets.''If you want to get in touch with the local culture, you can visit many''Shan villages''near Hsipaw. However, we were going to complete the trek from Namhsan, so we would visit the villages along the hike.''Little Bagan''Around the Market in Hsipaw''What can I visit in Namhsan?''IMPORTANT:''I heard that the access to Namhsan may be closed to tourists due to current conflicts with the local guerrilla. Check out the situation before you visit the region.''Namhsan is a really charming place. Almost all the houses are made of wood and it seems as though no time has passed in that cool mountain village. There are a few pagodas and temples that you can visit. However, what I enjoyed most was strolling the streets, having a cup of tea and feeling the tranquility of the place.''We were really lucky in that there was a''great celebration''in the village. It seemed that part of the local monastery had been enlarged and a great number of new nuns had come in (all kids). All the people from the nearby villages came down to pay their respects and bring gifts, money, etc.''There was a great feast and we were invited. We met many friendly people and were amazed at the beauty and diversity of the traditional costumes. Best of all, we were only five tourists in the midst of all those amazing people. It was great!''Namhsan village''Pagodas and Temples in Namhsan''Where can I stay? Accommodations''In Hsipaw:''The most famous hostels are Mr. Charles, Lily Guest House and Ever Green.''We stayed at''Lily Guest House''. The staff was very friendly and the place was pretty clean. We paid about''€10''for the double room with breakfast included. The internet was awful, though.''In Namhsan:''We stayed at the''Namhsan Guest House''. A very basic place, but very authentic. I really liked it; it looked more like a mountain shelter than a hostel. We paid''€8''for the double room.''Can I do the hike on my own?''It depends on the current security situation and on what the government establishes. There have been times when it was forbidden for a foreigner to cross this part of the country, while at other times it was fine so long as you were accompanied by a guide. Sometimes you could go without a guide (or at least that’s what we were told).''We went on our own''and had no problem. Well, the truth is that on the way we met the revolutionary Shan guerrillas who fight against the government, but they were quite friendly. They had a Che Guevara style. Yes, I know that something could have happened, but we didn’t know we would join them… Anyway, I’ve heard that these guerillas have declared a cease-fire after several negotiations in Bangkok, so it should be all right.''Otherwise, the hike is highly recommended. Although the mountains in the area are somewhat deforested, the villages still have a special charm. The people are extremely friendly, the kids go out to greet you and you can stay in the monasteries or in private homes.''Be careful with this because in Burma it’s forbidden for locals to host foreigners without a license. Even so, it seemed that they don’t take this rule very seriously in the region because we were invited to stay in houses several times, and so we did. Spending time with the people was the best part of the hike; sharing dinner, playing with the children and even sleeping on the wooden floor, with the back wrecked but a smile from ear to ear.''The path is not particularly difficult to follow and you’ll always find people whom you can ask for directions.''Be prepared to get lost a couple of times''if you go without a guide. Sometimes you will find crossroads and it’ll be like, “Ok, should I flip a coin?”''Here’s a trick''we used so that you can go without a guide and not get lost. The same day we left Namhsan, another couple was doing the hike with a guide. We greeted them and talked for 10 minutes. I noticed that the guy was wearing a pair of Salomon boots and I remembered his footprints. The route had a lot of dirt and dust, so it was really easy to follow his footprints for most of the trek. Every time we got to a crossing, Marcela walked in one direction and I walked in the other… the first one who found the Salomon’s footprints would shout, “This way!” Ha-ha, it was a lot of fun!''People you meet along the hike''A village on the way to Hsipaw''Our host on the first night. We loved that woman!''There are some nice landscapes''Our host family on the second night. Another great experience!''Weather. What’s the best season for Hiking from Namhsan to Hsipaw?''The rainy season''runs from June to September. During these months, it’s still possible to complete the hike, but you can expect showers.''From October to January is''the coolest season''. These months are ideal for this route because there is little rain and the landscapes are still very green.''From February to May is''the hottest season''. However, being at that altitude, we’re talking about bearable temperatures.''Tips for Hiking from Namhsan to Hsipaw:''Do not ask for accommodation; it will be offered to you.''As we mentioned before, hosting foreigners without a license is prohibited in Myanmar. That’s why it’s best not to ask anyone to host you. You can get them into big trouble.''When you get to a town, walk around and greet the locals. It’s very likely that someone will invite you to his house. Otherwise, you can go to a monastery, where the doors tend to always be open.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Maynmar. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Have you enjoyed How to Hike from Namhsan to Hsipaw on your own? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''20 Photos That Will Make You Want to Travel to Mya...''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''Annapurna base camp trek: Step by step guide''Mount Rinjani Trek: Your best adventure in Lombok''If you liked this, please share it:''Diving is an incredible activity, full of emotion and memorable moments. At the same time, snorkeling can este just as exciting as scuba diving if you choose a good spot and have the right gear. I remember a time when I saw a group of huge bump-head parrotfish passing by as well as an encounter with a giant moray in''Sumatra''.''The biggest advantage of snorkeling is that it’s suitable for everyone, regardless of age or experience. Even those who can’t swim can snorkel if they’re wearing a life jacket. It’s also a fantastic way to get into the submarine world, learn how to look for fish, begin to dive deeper and start feeling comfortable in the water.''Lately,''full face\xa0snorkeling masks''have become very popular, as they allow you to dive while protecting your entire face from contact with the water. They are perfect for beginners as well as experienced divers who want a more complete view of what’s around them. Some models include a''camera''mount, so you can record your dives and enjoy the videos later at home. These kinds of masks are very comfortable and are better fixed to the face.''They are very easy to use and include adjustment straps and a skirt that creates a seal with the face so there will be no leaks during the dive. Thanks to the shape of the mask, you have a 180-degree panoramic view of the underwater world.''On the other hand, full face masks retain a larger amount of air than do traditional masks, increasing their buoyancy. This makes it''a bit complicated to dive deeper''.''What you need to know before buying a\xa0full face mask for\xa0snorkeling:''Even though these masks can be a lot of fun, not everybody is going to like them. If you want to know whether they are what you are looking for, check out the following advantages and disadvantages:''Advantages''– A good solution for those who experience some difficulties breathing through traditional snorkels, because it feels easier to breathe.''– You get everything in one piece. Traditional snorkels tend to move and detach from the mask.''– You get a better seal. Leaks happen fairly often when using a traditional mask. Full face''masks are a good solution for people with moustaches, which create difficultly in terms of sealing on regular masks.''– Panoramic vision. You have full vision in all directions. This is one of the greatest advantages, as it gives you a new concept of snorkeling with a 180-degree view.''– They don’t get foggy as easily as regular masks do. They feature a dual vent system that allows the air to circulate inside, preventing fogging.''Disadvantages''– Even though they are a good option if you have a moustache, the sealing doesn’t work the same way with hairy beards.''– Not recommended for freediving. First, you have more air in the mask, so your buoyancy makes it more difficult to get deeper. On the other hand, there is no way to regulate pressure and you don’t have access to your nose, making it complicated to equalize.''– They are bulkier. Not a surprise, right? Some models are pretty big. It’s not a big problem for a short holiday, I guess, but you don’t want to carry a mask this big for weeks.''– You can’t wear glasses. Due to their design, it’s not possible to wear prescription glasses.''Comparison Chart:''Full Face Snorkel Mask''Colors''Sizes''Price''Editor Rating''Tribord Easybreath''3''4''$''4.7''Seaview 180''4''2''$$''4.5''Ocean Reef Aria''6''4''$$''4.4''Octobermoon''6''2''$''4.3''Head Sea Vu''6''4''$$''4.2''H20 Ninja 180''4''2''$$$''4.5''If you are looking for a good''mask, you must find the one that best fits your needs. There are many options and it’s not easy to find the right one. I want to help you make the right choice; that’s why I’ve created this awesome list.''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the best''BCDS'',''regulators''and''dive computers''.''BEST FULL FACE MASKS, REVIEW:''TRIBORD EASYBREATH MASK''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''A few years ago, Tribord presented the first full face snorkel mask: the''Tribord Easybreath''. Many customers reviewed this mask as unbeatable. Why? Because it has a great design and performance. It’s built with high-quality materials and it makes you breathe underwater in an easy and comfortable way. Some buyers said it feels like breathing on land.''The fit is better than with traditional masks. If any water comes in, it’s quickly drained through a valve situated on the down side of the mask, close to the chin. The mask is built with a resistant and durable polycarbonate window.''It also has a dry snorkel that prevents the entry of any water. The valve plugs the top of the snorkel when immersed, so the water doesn’t get inside the mask.''It’s a great option if you like to take underwater photos and videos. This model offers a wide 180-degree viewing window so you can check your camera screen easily. There is no attachment for a camera, though.''The mask is not prone to getting foggy thanks to its double air-flow system. It’s ventilated all the time, almost like domestic extraction fans.''It’s been in the market for years and still ranks as the favorite option for many. One of the reasons might be the price and the two-year warranty. While other brands are coming out with modern models, it’s difficult to beat the price of the Tribord.''This is a high-volume mask, so it’s not really recommended for free diving. It should be used near the surface of the water.''You can find this great mask available in three colors and four sizes to fit all ages.''Pros:''High-quality construction''180-degree view window''Amazing breathing performance''Great air-flow system''Super comfortable''Great seal''Cons:''Not good for free diving''No camera mount''SEAVIEW 180''“Great option for taking photos and videos”''Check price on Amazon''The''Wildhorn Outfitters Seaview 180''is a great snorkel mask. It’s similar to the Tribord. They have similar designs and performance; both make it very easy to breathe while you’re snorkeling and they don’t get foggy.''The 180-degree window allows you to enjoy the best the sea has to offer. The main difference with the Tribord is the camera mount. The Seaview 180 is equipped with a camera attachment. This is a big advantage if you like to take underwater photos.''This is the main reason why the Seaview 180 is the Editor’s Choice on this list. You can spend hours exploring the underwater world, taking photos and videos, and breathing as if you were on land. Forget about foggy lenses and sore jaws from biting a regular snorkel for a long time.''The Seaview 180 is an efficient, comfortable and durable mask. It has a good seal, a comfortable silicone skirt and wide straps, a dry snorkel to prevent water from getting into the mask and a purge valve on the chin.''As I said, it’s very similar to the Tribord. Both are high-quality masks. If you want to record underwater videos while snorkeling, this is a great option. If you are looking for a mask for your kids, I’d go for the Tribord Easybreath, as more sizes are available.''Pros:''Great design''180-degree view window''Good breathing performance''Comfortable silicone skirt''Camera mount''Cons:''The Tribord has a better anti-fog system''OCEAN REEF ARIA''“Solid and durable construction”''Check price on Amazon''If the Tribord Easybreath and the Seaview 180 are considered by many as the two best snorkeling masks on the market, the''Ocean Reef Aria''might be the third best one. Ocean Reef is a reputable Italian company that has been producing scuba equipment for a long time. It knows its stuff.''The mask has all the features of a great snorkeling mask. It has a comfortable silicone mask, wide straps, an anti-fog air system, a purge valve and a dry snorkel.''One of the main differences is that the Aria comes with a camera mount you can put on and take off when needed.''Overall, I think it’s a great mask. It’s more expensive than the previous models but that probably has to do with the construction of the mask. The Aria looks more solid and durable than other snorkel masks, and buyers who have beards said the seal is absolutely fantastic. No leaking despite the beard!''Pros:''Solid design''180-degree view window''Great overall performance''Comfortable silicone skirt''Can attach a separate camera mount''Cons:''More expensive''OCTOBERMOON''“Budget-friendly snorkel mask”''Check price on Amazon''The''Octobermoon''offers a great wide view, allowing you to enjoy the breathtaking submarine world. It’s another quality product with a design very similar to the Tribord Easybreath.''It’s very comfortable to wear thanks to its wide silicone skirt, and it comes with all the features: a dry snorkel, a 180-degree panoramic vision window and a purge valve that works like a charm. The valve is sealed by a ball when you are immersed in the water.''Many buyers said the seal worked perfectly even if the user has a full beard. The mask comes with a mounting kit containing screws and a screwdriver so you can attach your action camera.''This is probably the best value for the money. You get an outstanding mask for a very reasonable price!''Pros:''High-quality product''180-degree view window''Camera mount''Great seal''Price''Cons:''Nothing remarkable''Other quality models:''HEAD SEA VU''“Great design”''Check price on Amazon''I want to review the''Head Sea Vu''because it’s one of the latest products from Mares and I’d like to give it a try. As you probably know, Mares has been manufacturing scuba equipment for many years.''Actually, I found that it’s a very good product. It has a great overall breathing performance, seal and vision. Mares has started packing the Had Sea Vu mask in some of its snorkel kits, so that might be attractive for many. You can get a mask, good fins and a practical bag in the same kit. Isn’t that great?''You can find it in four sizes and six colors. The dry snorkel comes with an orange piece at the top so you can be seen easily by others while you are on the water’s surface.''Pros:''Good brand''Solid construction''You can find it in kits''Cons:''Expensive''H20 NINJA 180''“Top-quality product”''Check price on Amazon''The''Ninja 180''is another excellent mask. You can find the Ninja in two models: regular and special edition, which comes with a mount for your GoPro.''It’s a high-quality product. It works perfectly and must be on this list. However, it’s much more expensive than the previous models, so I don’t really see the point in paying more when you don’t get any extras.''If you are looking for a mask with a camera mount, I recommend that you buy the Seaview at a more reasonable price.''Pros:''Amazing performance''Great seal and valves''Cons:''Expensive''Other helpful gear for snorkeling:''ATOMIC AQUATICS VENOM''Full face snorkel masks are a lot of fun but some people still prefer traditional snorkel masks. If you like to dive deeper, they’re actually a better option. Diving deep with full face masks gets too difficult due to the large quantity of air sealed in the face.''The''Atomic Aquatics Venom''is a fantastic snorkel mask. Of course, you can use it for diving, too. It provides a high level of comfort, high-quality optics and a great design. The frameless skirt is made of two different silicon materials that offer a comfortable face seal and stability.''SEAC DRY 360''If you’ve opted for a traditional mask, you are going to need a snorkel. When it comes to snorkels, I’d recommend that you get a good one. They are not that expensive and you’ll avoid getting water in your mouth all the time. Look for a snorkel with a good valve and a comfortable mouthpiece. The''Seac Dry 360''ranks as on the top.''GOPRO HERO 6''Have you tried the new''GoPro Hero 6''? It’s absolutely amazing! The Hero 6 is the most powerful and easy-to-use GoPro ever. The video quality is still 4k but the Hero 6 comes with a great touchscreen, which makes things a lot easier. In addition, the camera is waterproof to 33 feet (10 meters) without a housing. It’s the perfect camera for your snorkel adventures!''CRESSI PLAYA''Even though you are planning to dive in warm waters, it’s recommended that you wear a good wetsuit if you or your kids are going to snorkel for a long time. The''Cressi Playa''is easy to put on and take off thanks to its front zip. It’s a great option for traveling in tropical destinations.''CRESSI PALAU SHORT FINS''Long fins are great for diving or free diving, but if you want fins for snorkeling, I recommend short fins. They are light and easy to pack, and though they don’t provide the same thrust as long fins, they’re good enough for snorkeling.''Why should I use a full face mask?''There are many reasons that come to mind in terms of choosing a mask like this.\xa0First, it’s gonna be a new experience and it’s always exciting to try out new gear. These masks are a lot of fun!''I think they’re a very good option for kids and entry-level divers because they make snorkeling easier and more comfortable. I’d like to point out that these masks are designed for both kids and adults, the same way regular masks are. They might be a good option for experienced divers, too.''You can enjoy the underwater world from a different perspective. The 180-degree panoramic view makes a huge difference and it feels pretty crazy the first few times.\xa0They are comfortable to wear and provide perfect, clear vision.''Did you know that you can find''full face masks for scuba diving''?''Should I buy or rent one?''Having your own snorkel gear – like a mask, wetsuit and fins – will make you feel more comfortable underwater. Moreover, rented gear is not always in good conditions, especially snorkel gear, which is usually not treated or stored correctly.''If you buy your own mask, you’ll have the following advantages:''Choice:''You’ll be diving with the mask you really like. This makes you feel more confident. Most places don’t rent this kind of masks, so you’ll get a regular diving mask.''Fit:''Once you have your own mask and feel comfortable with it, you won’t have to worry about rental masks that can be large and not fit your face. Many of them may also have leaks.''Use it as much as you want:''Having your own mask makes you free to use it as many times as you want; you’ll save a lot of money if you start using it often. Rental gear tends to be expensive.''Good condition:''Rental snorkel gear is usually poorly treated. Sometimes the strap is about to break or the skirt’s silicone is in bad condition and doesn’t create a good seal. You can take care of your mask and keep it for a long time.''A few things to consider:''Choosing size''You want a mask that fits you well, that is comfortable and that prevents leaks. Follow these recommendations to find the right size.''If the distance from the base of your chin to your eyes is:''< 10 cm: XS''10 – 12 cm: S''12 – 13 cm: M''> 13 cm: L/X''Test if it’s right for you by doing the following:''– Hold the mask against your face without using the straps. Now inhale through your nose and let go with your hand; the mask should stay in position. If it falls, the mask is too big. If you’re feeling that it’s too tight and not comfortable, it may be too small.''Keep in mind that a difference in size can make a difference in price.''Lens quality''Most manufacturers make “no-fog” lenses.\xa0Actually, no mask is absolutely “no fog”, but these models have great overall performance.\xa0The lenses are made of anti-scratch polycarbonate and are resistant and durable.''Skirt''The skirt makes the water seal against your face. When the skirt doesn’t work properly or when you’re wearing the wrong size, problems like leaking and fogging develop.''These models present high-quality designs with silicone skirts that provide a great seal.''Straps and buckles''You should choose a model with wide, comfortable straps. They should be adjustable to different sizes. The buckle system should be easy to use. Some models have an easy-to-push button release to quickly adjust the mask to your head.''Accessories''A good thing about these masks is that you can attach a camera and record all your underwater adventures. If you like to take photos underwater, this is a great opportunity. When you are scuba diving, you can also attach a camera to your mask, but you’ll get bubbles coming out of your regulator and going up. Some pictures or videos will be ruined by the bubbles.''How to avoid fogging:''Snorkeling with a foggy mask is very uncomfortable. Brand-new masks often get foggy at first. This is because they have a very thin silicone layer when they leave the factory. Fortunately, getting rid of this silicone layer is very easy:''For regular masks:''If you have a new mask (only regular dive masks)''1. Rub your mask with toothpaste:''This is a home remedy that works well. Toothpaste removes the thin layer of silicone. You must apply the toothpaste to both sides of the glass, rub gently with your fingers, leave the toothpaste on for a few minutes and rinse with water.''2. Use a lighter:''You can also remove the silicone layer by gently burning the surface of the glass with a lighter. A few passes should do it!''Before you go snorkeling:''1. Spit:''This is the best-known and most-practiced method. Simply spit on your mask before snorkeling. Spread the saliva around the lens and then rinse with water.''2. Anti-fog sprays:''There are many sprays that work the same way saliva does. A single drop is enough in most cases.''For full face masks:''They use a system of air flow. These masks are not prone to fogging. These masks are made of polycarbonate, so you shouldn’t use toothpaste or a lighter.''How to clean and care for your mask''It’s very important that you take care of your snorkel gear. You should clean your mask after every dive. Use fresh water and rub the lens, the straps and the skirt of the mask gently to get rid of the salt and possible bacteria.''Some manufacturers recommend dish soap to wash your mask.''Let the mask dry and store it in a dry place protected from the sun.''Do you have doubts?''The Tribord is the one with the best reviews from buyers; it has awesome features and quality. If you don’t plan to take underwater photos, I’d go with the''Tribord Easybreath''.''If you like to take photos and videos, I’d chose the''Seaview 180''. It has a resistant construction and a great overall performance, plus a camera mount.''Have you enjoyed the Top 7 Full Face Snorkel Mask Review? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Scuba Regulators Review 2018. Buying G...''Top 10 Best Scuba Diving Masks Review of 2018''Top 10 Best Dive Computers Review 2018. How to cho...''Top 10 Best Wetsuits for Scuba Diving, Review 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''No matter whether you are planning to hike a small trail or want to undertake a 10-day hike like the''Huayhuash circuit'', you should be well-prepared and have some knowledge of the route you are about to face.''In addition, you must know how to act on the mountain to complete all your adventures successfully. Although most of this knowledge comes from experience, it’s important to keep in mind some basic facts that even experienced hikers forget from time to time.''I would like to share the following''hiking tips''with you, mountain lover, so that you can prepare all your routes like a hiking pro!''30 Tips to Hike Like a Pro''First: Plan your hike''1. Be aware of your fitness level and the difficulty of the route.''Reaching the lagoon of the Fitz Roy is not as hard as hitting the Cotopaxi summit at almost 6,000 meters, right? Keep in mind the length of time you have been preparing yourself (or the length of time you haven’t been training), the diet you are consuming and your fitness level.''Ask fellow hikers to suggest doable treks.''2. Pick a trail.''Once you know your fitness level, think about a trail you would like to complete. The altitude, climate and duration of the trek are essential factors to consider.''3. Find a buddy (or let others know where you’re going).''Personally, I like to hike with friends (at least one). I think it’s more rewarding to share good moments with a good friend—and it’s much safer in case something happens.''4. Check the weather.''A few days in the rain can totally ruin your adventure. Check the rainy season of the country or region you are going to visit. I find''this website''to have a pretty accurate weather forecast.''5. Study the map.''Do you know how to read a topographic map? Learn how to read a map and study it before starting your hike. Check the highest passes, camping sites, nearby rivers, biggest peaks and references that can help you orient yourself.''Get your backpack ready''6. Try to go light.''The truth is, very few people manage to go really light, but do your best! Basically, the lighter you go, the better.''7. Bring quality clothes.''I know mountain clothing is expensive, but it’s a good investment if you are getting into hiking. You want to avoid situations like your feet getting wet or your jacket not being warm enough.''8. Don’t forget a raincoat.''It’s a very important part of your gear. It will protect you against water and wind. If you’re doing a high trail, do not forget one.''9. Bring a cap.''It can be a sun cap or a hat depending on the weather.''10. Bring a rain cover for your backpack.''You have your backpack full of amazing gear, but what if it starts raining and you can’t protect it?''11. Try not to wear cotton clothing.''Cotton is heavy and takes a long time to dry. Try to wear breathable garments.''12. Be sure you don’t forget anything.''Check out this list''with all the gear and clothing you may need for hiking.''Food and drink''13. Bring compact, light food.''Nowadays, you can find dehydrated, tasty meals for lunch and dinner. You can also bring powdered milk and cereal for breakfast. Again, try to go light.''14. Don’t forget the snacks.''In addition to the meals, bring some chocolate or energy bars to eat during your breaks.''15. Bring extra food.''Once you know how many days it will take you to complete the hike, bring food for one more day (at least). Sometimes, your trip will take longer than planned.''16. Drink water regularly (and plenty of it).''It’s very important to hydrate your body regularly, especially if you are hiking at high altitude.''17. Bring water purification tablets.''Sometimes it’s difficult to find a fresh stream or you might not be sure about the source of the water you’re drinking.''18. How much fuel do you need?''It seems silly, but many people have finished their gas canisters halfway. It’s not pleasant.''Safety first, we don’t want any accidents''19. Take a rest every hour.''You should take a five- or 10-minute break every hour or so.''20. Bring a map, compass or GPS.''A map is essential if you are going to complete a multi-day route. You can also bring a compass, a''hiking watch''or a''GPS''.''21. Beware of low temperatures.''Nights at a certain altitude can be really cold. Be sure you have the necessary gear and a good sleeping bag.''22. Wear sunscreen and lip balm, even on cloudy days.''Protect your skin from the sun and wind.''23. Bring a first-aid kit.''Bring a basic first-aid kit. Try to learn something about first aid. If you don’t find face-to-face courses nearby, you can learn some basics in YouTube tutorials.''Other hiking tips''24. Start with shorter routes.''If you are preparing for a multi-day hike, start by completing shorter routes. Let your body adapt.''25. Pick up all your garbage.''Let’s be clean! 🙂''26. Don’t forget your camera.''Most spectacular places I have seen in my life I have found in the mountains.''27. Stretch from time to time.''Don’t forget to stretch every day. If you can do it several times a day, much better.''28. It’s not a race, so take it easy.''Every person has his or her own rhythm. Don’t try to follow other hikers’ rhythm. Nor do they have to follow yours. Find your own pace, maintain a regular breath and keep going!''29. Even if you think you can’t do it, you can!''There are few other times when we test our limits as much as when we are hiking. Sometimes, we feel like we can’t keep on, but maybe we just need a break. Obviously, if you really think you are not able to finish the trail, just quit…nothing to be ashamed of.''30. Get started!''Pick a nice trail, get your backpack ready and go explore the mountains!''Do you have more Hiking Tips to share? Please, leave a comment!''Deep into Peru, we find one of the most fascinating areas of the country. A tropical forest where river routes replace roads. It’s''the Peruvian Amazon'', the famous lung of the planet, that unfortunately looks like it is being harmed day after day.''Iquitos is the perfect place to understand the madness of a huge metropolis which is accessible only by boat or plane. Logging, a decline in the rubber industry, prostitution and drug trafficing have given it a dark touch. But it still remains, without doubt,''one of the most interesting cities in all of South America''.''Belen neighborhood''is composed of floating houses on the river, that are able to adapt to the irregular water levels caused by heavy rains. The market is a place you can not miss. You can find everything there! From very rare fish, turtles, alligator tails, fried larvae and other delights that I had never seen before.''Once in Iquitos, a jungle tour is a must do. The only logical way to do it is through an agency. The experience is really interesting. Near Iquitos there are some''very nice lagoons, hundreds of rivers and unique small villages''. It is very important to find a good guide who can explain to you the development of the region, the history of the logging and rubber industry, the different plants of the region and someone who is also experienced at looking for monkeys, alligators and other animals.''We were lucky to find a very good guide who had been a hunter for 25 years and knew every millimeter of the jungle. At the end of the 3rd day of the tour, he even took us to his village to celebrate someone´s birthday and we had a really nice party with all the locals. It was a lot of fun!''Boat trip from Yurimaguas to Iquitos''Our beautiful boat!''Hammocks and hammocks everywhere''The city of Iquitos in the Peruvian Amazon''Floating Houses''The 3 day tour to discover the best of the Peruvian Amazon''Yeahh, that’s a tree!!''Raúl, our guide''Sunset over the Amazon''HOW TO GET TO IQUITOS BY BOAT''First, you need to get to the city of Tarapoto. This is pretty easy, there are connections from all over''Peru''. I came from Chachapoyas, as I was''visiting the Gocta falls.''Bus Chachapoyas – Tarapoto. 34 soles'', 10 hours of travel.''From Tarapoto there is a van going to the river town of Yurimaguas.''Bus Tarapoto – Yurimaguas. 10 soles'', 2 hours away.''Once in Yurimaguas take the boat going to Iquitos. These boats do not have a reliable schedule, but generally leave every few days. The problem is even if they had a schedule, sometimes they wait for more cargo and might stay a few days longer in Yurimaguas. The point is that you never know when it leaves, but usually you won’t wait for more than a day or two in Yurimaguas.''Boat Yurimaguas – Iquitos. 100 soles'', 3 days including food.''ACCOMMODATION IN NAUTA AND IQUITOS''Hostal Las Palmas. Nauta. 25 soles''per double room with bathroom''Iquitos:''Flying Dog''. Clean, great atmosphere and cool kitchen.''TIPS ON HOW TO GET TO IQUITOS''BUY A HAMMOCK''On the boat there are no beds, just a metal bar where you can hang a hammock. In Yurimaguas hammocks are sold in most stores from''about 15 Soles''.''BRING WATER''Although the food is included in the trip, the water is not.''MAKE THE TRIP SHORTER''If you want to save half day on the boat, you can get off at the city of Nauta, about 120 km from Iquitos and complete the last part of the journey by Van.''Boat Yurimaguas – Nauta. 90 Soles''Van Nauta – Iquitos. 10 soles, 2 hours''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Peru. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''COST OF THE TOUR TO THE JUNGLE''Jungle tour. 100 soles''per day all inclusive. Accommodation in a lodge, camping in the forest, visiting several lagoons, jungle treks, information about flora and fauna, piranha fishing (yes, very touristy) and night alligator watching.''If anyone is interested in the guide I had, this is his''Facebook Page''. I have no commission. I recommend him \xa0because he was a good guide.''Next Read:''Hiking Santa Cruz Trek in Peru''Any questions about How to get to Iquitos? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hike to the Gocta falls in Chachapoyas, Peru''Santa Cruz trek: Hiking the Cordillera blanca in P...''How to get to Machu Picchu on a budget''Backpacking in Peru. Ultimate Travel guide''If you liked this, please share it:''Whether you are on a short vacation,''hiking in Nepal''or taking a year-gap, you must take care of your most precious belongings. That means keeping your passport, credit cards and money in a safe place. Your passport is without a doubt the most important document you carry when traveling; if you run out of money or get robbed, you can still borrow some money from a friend, but if you lose your passport, your vacation might be ruined … and you don’t want to spend those days in an embassy, right?''A''passport holder''or travel wallet, depending on what you like to call it, will be very helpful because you can keep everything in one place. You won’t spend more time looking for your boarding pass, hotel keys, credit cards and important documents. That’s why passport holders have become so popular among travelers: they make your life easier.''Passport covers come in different materials, designs and sizes. Some of them are made of high-quality leather while others are not as fancy but have many pockets and other features. You should choose the one that best fits your needs.''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the''best sling bags'',''travel\xa0coffee makers''and''luggage locks''.''COMPARISON CHART:''Passport Holder''Material''Type''Price''Editor Rating''FJALLRAVEN''Canvas''Polyester''Wallet''$$''5.0''ZEROGRID RFID''Nylon''Neck wallet''$''4.6''BELLROY''Leather''Wallet''$$$''4.7''HERSCHEL SUPPLY CO.''Polyester''Wallet''$''4.7''VICTORINOX RFID''Polyester''Wallet''$''4.6''SAMSONITE ZIP CLOSE''Nylon''Family Wallet''$''4.2''VISCONTI SOFT LEATHER''Leather''Wallet''$''4.8''SWISS GEAR RFID''Nylon''Wallet''$''4.0''TRAVELAMBO RFID''Leather''Wallet''$''4.5''ORB TRAVEL ORGANIZER''Neoprene''Family Wallet''$''4.3''TYPES OF COVERS''Regular Passport Covers''You can find many models and sizes, designs and materials. They usually work as a case in which you can keep your documents, credit cards, etc.''Family Holders''The only difference is that they tend to have more pockets, slots and storage, so you can keep the passports of your kids and partner, too.''RFID Blocking''Did you know that American passports and those from many other countries are equipped with''RFID'', which means Radio Frequency Identification? Yes, the chip stores information about you that the authorities can read. With a proper reader, some criminals can read that information too, as long as they get fairly close.''RFID blocking passport holders prevent anyone from reading your passport. They are built with metal linings that cut the radio frequency, keeping your passport safe.''Anti-Theft Tracker''You probably know about the “find my phone app”, right? Some passport holders work in the same way, with a mobile application that allows you to trace the location of your passport.''ADVANTAGES:''You can keep everything in one place, so you don’t lose anything.''The best way to protect your documents from harsh weather conditions.''Easy to reach and find documents.''DISADVANTAGE:''The only disadvantage I could think of is that if you lose your passport wallet, you’d lose everything. Please don’t do that! 🙂''WHAT DO YOU NEED?''Think about your next trip. Are you going by yourself? Traveling with the family? Are you bringing many documents? There are hundreds of models of passport holders with different features and designs. Some of them are expensive while other are quite affordable. Prices generally start at as little as $10 and go up to $200, depending on the quality, materials, radio protection systems, available apps, etc.''I’ve taken the time to compare many reviews to create this complete list, so you can make the right choice. The following passport covers have been reviewed by many customers and have received very good feedback.''TOP 10 TRAVEL PASSPORT COVERS, REVIEW''FJALLRAVEN PASSPORT WALLET''“Fantastic wallet for travel and daily use”''Check price on Amazon''The''Fjallraven''is a fantastic passport holder that fits pretty much all you need in it while maintaining a thin shape. It’s roomy enough to keep your passport, credit cards, driver’s license, scuba certification, boarding passes and many other things. It has a stylish and sturdy design, perfect for travel or daily use.''It’s made of G-1000 canvas fabric, which is tough and durable. Fjallraven created this material using a combination of 65% polyester and 35% high-quality, all treated with Greenland Wax. As result, you get a water-resistant, UV-protected, breathable wallet.''It has a main zip that opens the wallet and another interior zip in one of the storage pockets so you can keep coins.''Like many other buyers, I find the Fjallraven to be one of the best options on the list.''ZEROGRID RFID''“Versatile passport against pickpockets”''Check price on Amazon''The''Zerogrid''offers great protection for your documents. The wallet is built with the DFID system, protecting your passport from identity theft.''Thanks to its versatile design, you can keep it in your backpack, hang it from your neck or fasten it in your belt – a big advantage if you are visiting crowded markets, bus terminals and other “pickpocket places.”''The Zerogrid is made of lightweight, water-resistant nylon. It’s breathable and soft, so you can use it underwear without problems.''You will find plenty of pockets in a flexible storage system. There are three zippered compartments to store cash, credit cards and other valuables.''BELLROY WALLET''“Top-end passport holder”''Check price on Amazon''The''Bellroy''is a top-end wallet made of high-quality leather in a sophisticated and elegant style. I really like this one, even though it’s the most expensive wallet on the list. It features a water-resistant zip to keep all your valuables protected in the hardest conditions.''It comes with a helpful pen and several compartments, including a slot for your passport and other pockets to keep your credit cards, boarding pass, multiple currencies and even smartphone. The pen might come in handy for filling out customs forms and in other situations.''Overall, it’s a great wallet with plenty of room and top-quality materials. If you’re willing to spend some money.''HERSCHEL SUPPLY CO. RAYNOR''“Chose your model in polyester or leather”''Check price on Amazon''Herschel Supply Co. has a wide variety of quality products. I like the''Raynor wallet''because it’s simple, functional, well-designed and beautiful. You can find it in one color for a very affordable price. There are other colorful options but, in my opinion, the price increases too much for a little decoration.''The model I’m reviewing here is made of 100% polyester. You’ll find a nice red and white striped lining in the interior, three slots for credit cards and a passport sleeve.''If you like leather, we have good news: You can find the same model in high-quality leather and different colors.''The Herschel Supply Raynor is a stylish and practical wallet for travel or daily use. The only downside is that there’s no zipper to close the case – either internal zipped pockets to keep coins.''VICTORINOX RFID''“Simple, elegant and affordable”''Check price on Amazon''The''Victorinox RFID holder''is another great choice for any kind of travel. It’s simple and elegant and it’s equipped with the RFID system to prevent any criminal from stealing your data.''This model can’t be zippered shut but it comes with an elastic closure which works just fine. There are just a few slots for your cards and a sleeve for the passport, so it’s not recommended for those who want to fill it with many things.''This wallet is meant to be practical and efficient, not to carry your iPhone and other things. Overall, I like the quality and functional design. Keeping things simple helps to keep everything organized. If you are looking for more capacity, keep reading and check out the next wallet.''SAMSONITE ZIP CLOSE TRAVEL WALLET''“Family travel wallet”''Check price on Amazon''I guess everybody knows Samsonite, as the company has been making quality suitcases and other products for decades.''The''Samsonite zip close travel wallet''is a great option for those who need extra space. Even though it’s bigger than other wallets I’ve recommended, it still has a reasonable size (10” x 6” x 0.5”) and is very lightweight and soft.''I like the external pocket for easy and quick access to boarding passes, maps and other things you must have on hand. In the interior, you’ll find enough storage to keep more than one passport, credit cards, maps, license cards and even your phone. There is a zipper to shut the wallet and keep all your valuables safe.''I think it might be a good option for family travel. Some reviewers kept as many as six passports inside, along with other documents.''VISCONTI SOFT LEATHER WALLET''“Elegant design”''Check price on Amazon''The''Visconti Hunter 732''is an elegant, well-designed wallet for short- and long-term travel. It’s made of soft, distressed leather (both the exterior and the interior) and has four credit card slots, one side sleeve and one top sleeve. It might be short in storage for some, but I think it’s enough to keep the most important valuables together with no problem.''There is no zipper to keep it closed and it’s equipped with the RFID system to prevent criminals from stealing personal information.''The wallet is quite elegant, so it might add some style and glamour to your backpacking trips. I think it’s one of the most beautiful choices on the list.''SWISS GEAR RFID''“A simple, budget-friendly option”''Check price on Amazon''The''Swiss Gear RFID''is a resistant, tactical-style nylon wallet designed to protect all your documents from pickpockets, electronic theft and physical damage.''The wallet is meant to last for years thanks to its rugged construction from high-quality nylon. It’s simple and easy to use, and it comes with a see-through mesh window for your passport, which makes it easier to check immediately.''There’s not much storage in this simple design and the size is a bit tight, even though there’s room to keep your passport and some credit cards inside.''TRAVELAMBO RFID PASSPORT CASE''“Best budget option”''Check price on Amazon''The''Travelambo''is another simple, affordable and efficient travel wallet. It’s not big but there’s room for all your important documents.''It’s made of soft, strong leather, and it has a stylish design, an RFID blocking system to stop electronic theft and a button to close it and keep everything safe.''It’s a very popular option and has received many positive reviews from customers. It’s probably the best value for the money.''ORB TRAVEL FAMILY ORGANIZER''“Great family passport holder”''Check price on Amazon''The''ORB organizer''is a great wallet to bring on your family trips. The interior looks well-organized and roomy. It has different compartments to hold as many as four passports, another compartment for travel documents and two compartments for credit cards.''The exterior is made of soft neoprene with RFID metal linings to prevent electronic theft. A wrap-around zipper keeps all your valuables safe.''I recommend this wallet if you are traveling with your family and want to keep all the passports and important documents in one place.''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''BAGSMART TRAVEL ELECTRONICS ORGANIZER''“Awesome electronic organizer”''Check price on Amazon''Keeping all your documents safe in one place is a great idea, but what about your electronic stuff? It’s quite messy to keep your batteries, SD cards, cables and other pieces scattered throughout the backpack, isn’t it?''The''Bagsmart travel electronic organizer''will be very helpful for that purpose! It’s made of water-repellent nylon to keep all your accessories safe, while the double external zipper helps keep you from dropping anything while you take the organizer from your backpack.''A storage plate separates the organizer into two parts and 17 elastic loops to store cables, chargers, batteries, etc.''A good option for those, like me, who travel with a lot of electronic gear!''MEDIABRIDGE IPAD CASE''“Excellent choice for your iPad”''Check price on Amazon''Alright, now that you have all your documents and electronic items organized, you might want to look at this great carrying case for iPads.''The''Mediabridge iPad Case''will help you protect your iPad while traveling, keeping the iPad, cables and accessories in the same place.''A FEW THINGS TO CONSIDER BEFORE BUYING A PASSPORT COVER''Size''This really depends on how many documents you must bring. I recommend getting a passport holder in which you can fit all your stuff, but one that isn’t too big. A big holder can be bulky. Always save room for unexpected items but don’t get a giant cover.''Materials''Keep in mind that some materials – like leather – last longer, while others – like plastic – resist harsh weather conditions better. Leather holders are durable and they look nice, but many people don’t want to buy an item that is made of an animal. It’s a personal decision.''Durability''We’ve talked about materials, and this has much to do with durability, of course, but there are other things to consider when we talk about durability. Some low-quality products have bad seams that don’t last long. I recommend that you get a high-quality product, with a nice design, resistant materials and a good seam.''Zip pockets''Many models come with internal or external zips so that the user can avoid dropping anything from inside the passport wallet.''Security''The most advanced passport holders are equipped with the latest technology that helps you find your passport if you have lost it or get robbed. These models are usually the most expensive.''TIPS TO KEEP ALL YOUR BELONGINGS SAFE''Get insurance before you leave''If you are traveling with expensive gear, you can get good insurance for those items. If you get robbed or lose something, the insurance company will get you a new product, depending on the coverage.''Mail your documents''Even though you are carrying all your important documents in a passport holder, it’s always a good idea to email yourself a copy.''Use locks on your backpack or case''Sometimes you might get on a crowded bus or metro – a good opportunity for pickpockets to steal something.''WHICH ARE THE BEST PASSPORT COVERS?''We have reviewed great brands and models on the list. Do you still have doubts? Let me help you:''If you are looking for a practical, well-designed and resistant wallet, I recommend the''Fjallraven''for any kind of travel.''If you are more into fashion and want a stylish wallet, go with the''Herschell Supply Co''. If you need a passport holder for your family vacations, choose the''ORB travel organizer''.''Other travelers also liked:''Duffel Bags''Travel Adapters''Packing Cubes''Travel Drones''Have you enjoyed the “Passport Holders for Travel, Review”? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Sling Backpacks for Travel''Top 10 Best Drones for Travel''The Best Luggage Locks for Travel''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''Although the idea of \u200b\u200bdisconnecting and forgetting about the rush and stress of work sounds great, it’s often not possible. The digital-nomad lifestyle is growing and more people are working and traveling at the same time. Many long-term travelers bring laptops on their trips to update their blogs, edit videos or retouch photos on Photoshop. Other travelers use them to listen to music, make Skype calls or watch movies.''A few years ago, traveling with a laptop was complicated. The batteries didn’t last long and the added weight in the backpack was around 2-3 kilos. Today, thanks to technological advances, laptops are lightweight, compact and rugged. The batteries are designed to last for several hours, making your travels more comfortable and efficient. Plus, the resolution of new displays is simply extraordinary.''The characteristics of your laptop will depend on how you’ll be using it. Not all computers are designed equally. Portability, storage capacity, battery life, type of processor, screen size and weight are the main features to consider. Of course, price is important, too. Don’t worry, though; some affordable high-quality options are available.''You must also keep in mind your destination. If you’re going to visit tough countries with higher chances of being robbed, assaulted, etc., you might not want to bring a $2,000 laptop. In any event, don’t be too paranoid: I’ve been traveling all around Latin America for several years with my Macbook Pro and I’ve never experienced any problems. I know I’m taking a risk, but I wouldn’t replace my laptop with any other one.''Do you want to find the''best ultralight laptop for travel''? You’re in the right place! I’ve created a list of the best models by categories. Just take a look and choose the one that best suits your needs.''Check other buyer’s guides to find the''best travel drones'',''sling bags''and''luggage locks''.''COMPARISON CHART:''LAPTOP''SCREEN SIZE''WEIGHT''FEATURES''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''MACBOOK AIR''13.3 in''2.9 lbs''1.6 GHz i5''8 GB RAM''128 GB HD''$$''4.7''MACBOOK PRO''13.3 in''3.0 lbs''2.9 GHz i5''8 GB RAM''256 GB HD''$$$''4.8''HP FOLIO G1''12.5 in''2.1 lbs''1.1 GHz''8 GB RAM''256 GB HD''$$''4.5''SAMSUNG NB 9''13.3 in''1.8 lbs''2.5 GHz i5''8 GB RAM''256 GB HD''$$''4.8''DELL XPS 13''13.3 in''2.9 lbs''2.3 GHz i5''8 GB RAM''128 GB HD''$$''4.5''ASUS UX330''13.3 in''2.6 lbs''2.5 GHz i5''8 GB RAM''256 GB HD''$$''4.8''MICROSOFT BOOK 4''12.3 in''1.7 lbs''2.2 GHz M''4 GB RAM''128 GB HD''$$''4.6''HP X360''13.3 in''2.9 lbs''2.5 GHz i7''16 GB RAM''512 GB HD''$$$''4.7''ACER CHROMEBOOK''11.6 in''2.4 lbs''2.16 GHz''2 GB RAM''16 GB HD''$''4.2''LENOVO 1OOS''11.6 in''2.2 lbs''Atom Z3735''2 GB RAM''32 GB HD''$''4.3''TYPE OF LAPTOP:''CHROMEBOOKS''Chromebooks''may be a good choice for those looking for something simple and cheap. Don’t expect too much from this type of laptop. It doesn’t work with a complete operating system, like Windows or Mac OS, but a simple Chrome browser system. Thanks to their design and materials, these devices are ultra light and compact. You won’t be able to use a lot of applications and programs like Adobe Lightroom or Microsoft Office, but you can open MS Office files using the QuickOffice editor or Google Docs. You can also use the online version of MS Office. If you want a basic model that allows you to save photos, watch movies and surf the internet, Chromebooks are among the cheapest options.''CONVERTIBLES – LAPTOP – TABLET''These devices are all about versatility. They combine two options in one. You can use them as a laptop or a tablet depending on the situation and your needs. They can be very useful for long-term trips when using a tablet to read or watch a movie might be more comfortable. Keep in mind that although convertibles are more powerful than Chromebooks, they don’t have the same power that conventional laptops do. If you need to edit videos or photos, they may not be your best option.''ULTRABOOKS''These are powerful laptops with great performance. They provide high speed, resolution and quality. Many of them are used in offices or homes but most manufacturers have also created ultralight and compact models for travel. You can count on the quality of a professional computer and the size and weight of a travel laptop.''Obviously, they are the most expensive devices on the list. However, if you use heavy software like Photoshop, AutoCad, etc., I recommend that you opt for this type of machine.''THE BEST LAPTOPS FOR TRAVEL''TOP-END:''If you need an advanced laptop for photo and video editing with the best performance, I recommend that you take a look at the next models:''APPLE MACBOOK AIR''SCREEN SIZE:''13.3 inches''WEIGHT:''2.9 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Mac OS X''PROCESSOR:''1.6 GHz Intel Core i5''RAM:''8 GB DDR3 SDRAM''HARD DRIVE:''128 GB SSD''“Very popular laptop”''Check price on Amazon''The''Macbook Air 13''is one of the most popular choices among travelers and backpackers. Apple processors and operating systems are, in my opinion, the best on the market. They work like a charm and they don’t get stuck as often as other operating systems do. Another advantage is the close-to-zero use of the ventilator. Actually, there’s a built-in ventilator, but unlike with other laptops, it’s barely needed. That makes it a super-silent device.''At 0.11 inches thick, the Macbook Air is one of the thinnest models on the market, and it’s powered by a 1.6 GHz Intel Core i5 Processor, which is enough for most people. However, keep in mind that it’s not the most powerful laptop on the list. If you need to process large files and edit videos or photos, I’d go for the Macbook Pro, which has a considerably better performance.''APPLE MACBOOK PRO''SCREEN SIZE:''13.3 inches''WEIGHT:''3.0 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Mac OS Sierra''PROCESSOR:''2.9 GHz Intel Core i5''RAM:''8 GB LPDDR3''HARD DRIVE:''256 GB SSD''EXTRA FEATURES:''Touch Bar, Touch ID''“Powerful and reliable”''Check price on Amazon''What can I say about the''Macbook Pro 13''? This is the laptop I’ve been using for the last few years, and I couldn’t be happier with it. Well, my (previous) model doesn’t have a touch bar and other new features, but it’s basically the same computer. This powerful device features a 2.9 Ghz Intel Core i5 processor, 8 GB of RAM memory and a 512 GB hard drive. It’s the perfect laptop for people looking for the best performance.''The new Macbook Pro 13 includes a versatile touch bar and a touch ID to increase security. Apple has managed to improve the quality of the screen, making it even thinner and lighter than the last model, which was already awesome. I’d recommend it to bloggers, photographers, video makers and graphic designers. It’s one of the heaviest and it’s definitely not cheap, but I guess high performance comes at a price.''You can get the''2015 model for a killing price''now.''HP ELITEBOOK FOLIO G1''SCREEN SIZE:''12.5 inches''WEIGHT:''2.14 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''1.1 GHz''RAM:''8 GB LPDDR· SDRAM''HARD DRIVE:''256 GB FMSSD''EXTRA FEATURES:''It opens 180º''“Versatile and well-designed”''Check price on Amazon''The''HP Elitebook Folio G1''looks a lot like a 12-inch Macbook Air, but is designed for professional Windows users. It’s ultralight and thin while being stylish and comfortable to use. Thanks to its modern design, you can open the hinge a full 180 degrees, which means the screen can be pushed back so that it lays totally flat. It uses Intel’s latest Core M-series processors, and it works quickly and smoothly. However, it’s not the best option for heavy photo editing.''It comes with a touchscreen display, which may be convenient for some people. Just keep in mind that this kind of display tends to be a bit glossy. If you’re planning to use your laptop for several hours a day, the touchscreen might tire your eyes. Overall, though, it’s a great laptop for those who prefer using Windows operating systems.''SAMSUNG 13 NOTEBOOK 9''SCREEN SIZE:''13.3 inches''WEIGHT:''1.8 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''2.5 GHz Intel Core i5''RAM:''8 GB DDR3 SDRAM''HARD DRIVE:''256 GB FMSSD''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''The''Samsung Notebook 9''is a great choice for those looking for an ultralight laptop with high performance. Actually, it’s the lightest in the “Top-End” selection, but don’t think that its light weight affects its speed or performance. The 2.5 GHz Intel Core i5 processor is fast, reliable and powerful. This computer has two full-sized USB ports, stereo speakers, 256 GB of storage and 10 hours of battery life. It has probably the best balance between price, performance, weight and size.''If you need a bigger screen, you’ll be glad to know that the same model is available in 15 inches, featuring an even more powerful 2.7 GHz Intel Core i7 processor. That’s a great option for designers, video makers or anyone looking for a very powerful, fast laptop.''DELL XPS 13''SCREEN SIZE:''13.3 inches''WEIGHT:''2.9 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''2.3 Ghz Intel Core i5''RAM:''8 GB DDR3 SDRAM''HARD DRIVE:''128 GB SSD''“Functional and fast”''Check price on Amazon''The''Dell XPS 13''combines the functionality and power of regular computers with the size of portable, easy-to-carry notebooks. It features a 1920 x1080 resolution screen, a 128 GB hard drive and a powerful 2.3 Ghz Intel Core i5 processor running on Windows 10.''It has won several “laptop of the year awards” and it’s definitely a reliable, powerful device. However, if you’re worried about weight, you can find lighter options on the list. In my opinion, the Samsung Notebook 9 and the Macbook Pro have better overall performance.''ASUS ZENBOOK UX330''SCREEN SIZE:''13.3 inches''WEIGHT:''2.6 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''2.5 GHz Core i5''RAM:''8 GB DDR3 SDRAM''HARD DRIVE:''256 GB SSD''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''The''Asus Zenbook UX 330''is the last model in the Top-End selection. It’s become quite popular lately because it’s well-constructed, super slim and fast. Moreover, it features a fantastic Full HD 1920 x 1080 display … and all that for a very reasonable price. It’s one of the most affordable (yet powerful) options on the list.''If you need a reliable laptop with great performance but don’t want to spend too much money, this is probably the best deal of the year.''CONVERTIBLES:''MICROSOFT SURFACE BOOK PRO 4''SCREEN SIZE:''12.3 inches''WEIGHT:''1.7 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''2.2 GHz Core M''RAM:''4 GB''HARD DRIVE:''128 GB''“You can detach the keyboard”''Check price on Amazon''If you’re looking for something ultralight and versatile, the''Microsoft Surface Book Pro 4''might be your best choice. It’s sturdy, well-designed and convertible, being very popular among backpackers and casual travelers. Due to its great design and extra features, you can use it as a tablet or a powerful laptop. It has a great battery for watching movies, and according to Microsoft, it should last up to nine hours.''The basic model features a 2.2 GHz Core M processor, which is alright for some photo and video editing. However, if you need higher performance for professional use, you can get it with a 3.4 GHz Intel Core i7 processor.''HP SPECTRE X360''SCREEN SIZE:''13.3 inches''WEIGHT:''2.9 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''2.5 GHz Intel Core i7''RAM:''16 GB SDRAM DDR3''HARD DRIVE:''512 GB SSD''“Awesome convertible laptop”''Check price on Amazon''The''HD Spectra''features a super slim construction, great performance and a really powerful 2.5 GHz Intel Core i7 processor. The 2017 edition has been very popular, topping most reviews of convertible laptops. The touchscreen is bright, with accurate colors and great contrast, and the batteries are meant to last for 16 hours!''As it name suggests, the hinge opens to a full 360 degrees, giving you the option to push back the screen and use it as a tablet. The construction of the whole device is amazing; both the trackpad and keyboard are solid and enjoyable to use, and the quality of the speakers is pretty good for a laptop.''BUDGET ULTRALIGHT LAPTOPS''ACER CHROMEBOOK''SCREEN SIZE:''11.6 inches''WEIGHT:''2.4 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Chrome''PROCESSOR:''2.16 GHz Intel Celeron''RAM:''2 GB DDR3L''HARD DRIVE:''16 GB FMSSD''“Budget friendly”''Check price on Amazon''The''Acer Chromebook''is the most affordable laptop on the list. It’s a bit short on RAM memory and hard dive, and it doesn’t run a very powerful processor. It’s meant to be a companion on your trips, so you can surf the internet, write about your adventures, work on light software, make Skype calls, watch movies, listen to music, etc. If you need to run heavy software, it’s probably not your best option.''Remember that it doesn’t use Windows. Instead, it has a Chrome-based operating system, so you can’t install most Windows-based programs like Adobe, MS Office, etc.''LENOVO IDEAPAD 100 S''SCREEN SIZE:''11.6 inches''WEIGHT:''2.2 pounds''OP SYSTEM:''Windows 10''PROCESSOR:''Atom Z3735F''RAM:''2 GB DDR3L''HARD DRIVE:''32 GB''“Affordable laptop”''Check price on Amazon''The''Lenovo Ideapad''is a great solution for those who don’t need a powerful processor and who are looking for an inexpensive laptop. It’s a pretty basic model, so it’ll do the job using light software, but don’t expect to play video games of anything with lots of graphics.''If you need to edit video and photos, I wouldn’t consider this type of budget laptop. I suggest that you take a look at the Ultrabook selection and spend a little more money.''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''If you like photography and are planning to take lots of photos during your upcoming travels, consider buying an external hard drive for extra storage and the possibility of keeping backups with you.''WD ELEMENTS – 1 TB''SEAGATE – 4 TB''THINGS TO CONSIDER BEFORE BUYING A LAPTOP:''1- WINDOWS OR MAC?''Here we get into the eternal battle: Windows versus Mac. Although there are different opinions, Windows is still the most popular choice, providing a wide range of hardware and software. On the other hand, the Mac operating system is, for many, more stable, solid and reliable. I’ve used both systems and I think I prefer Mac. Despite this, the new HP, Lenovo and Asus computers are spectacular and the Windows system seems to have improved noticeably.''2- SIZE''If you’re concerned about portability, you need a compact and lightweight device. Most computers on the list should do well here, as they’re designed to be ultralight and slim. If you don’t have specific size needs, an 11- to 13-inch screen would be a good fit for travel.''3- WEIGHT''Most people working and traveling at the same time look for''lightweight laptops''that are easy to carry. That’s why weight is one of the key factors in making the right choice. Chromebooks, convertibles and Ultrabooks are the best options, in most cases weighing less than 1 to 1.5 kg. Most new models no longer feature DVD players or large hard drives. I strongly recommend that you don’t buy one of those 17-inch computers unless you really need that screen size for your work. The weight you’d be adding would be considerable.''4- SCREEN QUALITY''You’ll spend many hours a day looking at the screen of your computer, so it must be suited for that use. Many of today’s laptops (especially convertible ones) have touchscreens, which are sometimes very glossy. Keep in mind that glossy screens produce a lot of reflection and can damage your eyesight after lengthy exposure.''5- BATTERY LIFE''Most laptops on the list are designed to last for several hours. However, manufacturer-quoted battery life is often different from reality. Some settings, such as brightness, resolution, running tasks or saving modes, can drastically affect the performance of the batteries. If you use programs that require a lot of processing, or if you transfer many files over your wireless or Bluetooth network, the batteries will not last as long as you desire.''6- KEYBOARD''If you’re going to use the laptop very often and write a lot, I recommend getting a comfortable and sizeable keyboard. It’s important that the keyboard have full-sized keys with some space around them. Make sure the keyboard is backlit so you can type in dark environments.''7- BUILD QUALITY''Even if you’re the most careful person in the world, odds are you’ll drop or hit your laptop at some point. You might also spill coffee or water on it. Some models are designed to withstand a bit of water and dust. Take a look at the specifications to ensure the model you’re interested in has passed these kinds of tests.''8- CPU''Most popular laptops use Intel Core-based CPUs. These processors offer great performance for multitasking and multimedia tasks. Core i3 is the most basic option and is found in entry-level computers. Core i5 is quite a bit faster and is one of the most-used CPUs. The most advanced laptops use Core i7 CPUs to provide the best performance, quality and speed.''9-RAM''The RAM capability allows you to run multiple applications at the same time and quickly access data, like photos or videos. If you want a powerful laptop, I recommend that you choose one with 4GB to 8GB of RAM.''10- HARD DRIVES''It’s important to check the capacity and speed of the hard drive. Some people want large hard drives so they can store a lot of photos, music and videos. However, capacity isn’t the only point to keep in mind when you buy a hard drive. Speed \u200b\u200bis an important factor in accessing data quickly. Manufacturers indicate hard drive speed in revolutions per minute (RPM).''Most new models incorporate solid state drives (SSDs) rather than hard drives, especially on thin and light models. SSDs are much faster, run silently and add less weight and size to the laptop.''11- USB 3.0''I recommend that you get a laptop with several USB 3.0 ports so you can plug in external hard drives, a mouse or a charger.''HOW TO PROTECT YOUR LIGHTWEIGHT LAPTOP''1- USE A PADDED CASE''Regardless of the type of travel you’ll be doing, you’ll need to protect your laptop from harm and weather conditions. Use a case with a handle in case you want to carry it like a briefcase, or a sling bag for easy transport.''2- NEVER LEAVE YOUR LAPTOP UNATTENDED''Keep it with you all the time, especially in airports, train stations and bus terminals. When I travel by bus at night, I always keep my computer inside my bag with a strap around one of my legs. I like to play it safe. If you’re in a market or crowded place, keep your bag at your front.''3- HUMIDITY AND HEAT''Very high temperatures and humidity can cause problems with your electronic devices.''5- VOLTAGE AND PLUGS''Make sure your device can work with the voltage used in the country you’re visiting. If not, you can bring along a voltage converter and probably a''travel adapter''to plug in.''6- LOCK YOUR LAPTOP''Some things can “disappear” when you’re staying in backpackers’ hostels. Make sure a''locker''is available at the hostel, and keep it locked at all times.''HOW TO PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION''1- CHECK YOUR DATA''Before leaving home, always check your data and software. Make sure the firewall is in place, and ensure the latest anti-virus software is installed.''2- DON’T TRUST UNFAMILIAR NETWORKS''Today, most airports, bus terminals and restaurants offer free Wi-Fi. However, those networks are not secure. People could easily break in and steal your information. Try not to send personal data, credit card numbers or other sensitive information.''3- USE PASSWORDS''Of course, you should always use a password to access your computer. Some services like''Gmail''have two-step confirmation systems to avoid unauthorized access. First you use your password; they will send a code to your phone, and then you gain access by inserting the code.''4- BACK UP YOUR DATA''For this, you can use an external hard drive or an online host.''Dropbox''gives you 2GB of free storage space, which isn’t much for photos.''Mega''gives you 50GB of free storage, which is pretty acceptable for a free service. However, keep in mind that the website has been through many legal issues lately and nobody knows whether the site could shut down one day.''5- DISABLE BOOTING FROM CD OR USB''Using some programs, it’s easy to remove account passwords or guess short ones. However, running that software requires booting the computer from a USB drive or CD. You can increase security by disabling the option to boot from those devices.''6- ENCRYPT YOUR HARD DRIVE''If you have sensitive data, I suggest that you encrypt your hard drive. You can do this by using''BitLocker'', an encryption software available for Windows.''TrueCrypt''works for Windows XP, Linux and OS X.''Have you enjoyed the Best Lightweight Laptops for Travel? Leave a comment''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel''Top 10 Passport Holders''Top 10 Best Drones for Travel''The Best Luggage Locks for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''Would you like to explore one of the most authentic areas in all Thailand? If you are looking for an alternative to the crowded southern beaches, I recommend that you travel to Chiang Mai and embark on an unforgettable adventure: the''Mae Hong Son Loop''.''This loop will take you through lost villages, popular markets, sacred temples and amazing landscapes. Most people think that Thailand is a very crowded, touristy destination (and they are right). However, there are still plenty of beautiful areas to visit, places where mass tourism hasn’t arrived and in which the friendly locals greet you with a smile.''The Mae Hong Son Loop, with 600 km of road and more than 4000 curves, is a famous route among cyclists and motorists, as it crosses mountains, forests, waterfalls and traditional villages. You can complete it in three or four days, but I’d recommend taking a few extra days to get the most out of it.''If you want to enjoy this adventure to the fullest, prepare a light backpack, rent a scooter and hit the road. You’ll have the freedom to explore off-the-beaten-track places at your own pace.''ITINERARY''There are several ways to complete this adventure, taking different roads and visiting hundreds of destinations. It depends on your plans and the amount of time you have. The “must-see” places are Chiang Mai (the starting and ending point), Pai, Mae Hong Son and Mae Sariang.''In addition, you can visit other villages, temples, waterfalls, mountains and places along the way. In this guide, I’ll talk about the places we visited during the seven days it took us to complete the loop. I’ll also tell you about some of the best things you can do in each one.''Some travelers start the route from Chiang Mai to Mae Sariang, but we decided to start in the opposite direction: from Chiang Mai to Pai. To be honest, I don’t know why we did this, but it doesn’t really matter. You can do it either way you’d prefer; the direction doesn’t change anything.''TRANSPORT: BICYCLE, MOTORCYCLE, HITCHHIKE OR BUS?''Although most people visit this area by bike, there are other alternatives. If you don’t know how to ride a motorcycle, don’t worry! You can complete the loop by hitchhiking or taking local buses. Sure, it will take longer, but it can be a good experience too. There are regular buses and minibuses connecting the main cities on the route. For more specific visits, you can hire a tour that will take you to small villages, national parks, etc.''After hiking in the''Salawin National Park'', we hitchhiked our way back from a small village to Mae Sariang. Getting a lift was easy and quick. The people of the region are very friendly and it seems that hitchhiking is a common practice among them.''This route is also very famous among cyclists. Just keep in mind that there are steep slopes along the way. If you are going to cycle, you get all my respect!''Hitchhiking in Thailand''WHAT DO I NEED TO RENT A MOTORCYCLE FOR THE MAE HONG SON LOOP?''When you get to Chiang Mai, you’ll see hundreds of motorcycle rental shops. Prices are similar, but it also depends on the scooter, the engine capacity and other factors. I recommend that you take a walk and visit two or three rental shops before making a choice. If you are planning to rent the bike for several days, try to bargain on the price a little.''Even though it sounds crazy, they will not ask you for a driver’s license. My friend, German, had never driven a bike in his life (no experience at all) and rented it with no problem. It is also true that he almost crashed the bike in front of the shop owners, but that’s another story.''However, they will ask for your passport. Try to leave a photocopy if possible, although in my experience that doesn’t work. Usually, they want to keep the physical passport in case anything happens to the bike. It’s important that you take photos of the bike in case it has any small dent or scratch. This way you will avoid getting charged for any defect the bike had before you rented it.''There are different types of bikes, so find the one that best fits your needs and experience. The classic 125cc scooter is by far the most popular choice among travelers and backpackers. The price is usually about''250 baths''a day.''If you want to rent semiautomatic or manual motorcycles, the prices increase to''800 – 2000 baths''a day.''German riding his scooter!''HOW IS THE ROAD?''On some parts of the route, such as the outskirts of Chiang Mai, you will find well-paved roads with a freeway look. The rest of the route is mostly mountain road. Sometimes, you will have to get off the road and ride on unpaved roads with small stones, sand, mud, etc. In general, the roads are acceptable but keep in mind that they contain hundreds of curves and steep slopes.''Moreover, you can find a couple of dogs “sunbathing” in the middle of the road or a chicken crossing the road at any time. Always wear a helmet and proper clothes for the road.''WHAT SHOULD I WEAR?''I recommend that you go light on this route. You can take the clothes you need, a camera, etc. and leave the rest at your hostel in Chiang Mai. Most hostels will store your stuff until you return from the trip.''Keep in mind that it’s a mountain road, so even though you are in a tropical country, it can get cold depending on the season! It’s not strange to encounter sudden weather changes and heavy rainfalls at any time. Bring at least an extra jersey and a waterproof jacket. In addition, don’t forget a pair of shorts, a set of flip-flops and a few t-shirts for day-to-day wear.''HIKING THE NORTH REGION''This is the perfect place for hikers and adventure lovers. You can find several agencies offering hiking tours in all cities along the route. If you are looking for something cheap, Chiang Mai offers the best prices. However, it’s the most touristy and least authentic option of all. Be ready to hike in a group of 10 people along beaten trails, visiting towns that five million tourists have visited before you.''I’d recommend that you hike in the Mae Sariang area. We hired a three-day jungle trek and it was amazing. We saw howler monkeys, walked through beautiful valleys and visited authentic villages. Very few people come to this part of the country, so the locals treated us almost like friends. We shared some of the local liquor, drank with them, ate with them, laughed … It was a very nice experience! You can tell that they are not tired of seeing “gringos,” which is the case in other places.''THE MAE HONG SON LOOP''CHIANG MAI''Beautiful Chiang Mai will delight most travelers with ancient temples, good hostels and a lively nightlife. It’s quite a touristy spot, so be careful if you’re planning to book a tour from there. This is also the mecca of meditation, reiki and massage courses in Thailand.''Things to do in Chiang Mai:''–''Wat Phra That Doi Suthep Temple.''Although the city has several temples, Wat Phra That is one of the most picturesque in the northern region.''–''Sunday Night Walking and Saturday Night Markets.''The city markets are great places to try local food and walk among the locals.''–''Climbing in Hang Dong Rock.''A good option for the most adventurous; climb to the top of the rock and jump into the turquoise lagoon.''–''Cooking, yoga and massage courses.''Chiang Mai has a wide variety of courses, offering very reasonable prices.''–''Bars and nightlife.''Although it’s not Bangkok or Phuket (fortunately), the city has an amazing nightlife. Many bars offer live music, shows and a bit of Thai naughtiness.''CHIANG MAI TO PAI''This is the roughest part of the trip, so be prepared to drive through steep slopes and infinite bends for a few hours. You will find beautiful landscapes, amazing viewpoints and tiny villages.''Although most people drive straight to Pai, I recommend that you take the road to Chiang Dao, a quiet mountain village surrounded by large rock formations. There you’ll find a famous complex of caves with more than 12 km of tunnels, stalactites and other formations.''PAI''Pai is a lovely town that attracts hippies, backpackers and adventurers. A long time ago, it was a quiet place, although lately it has become a “must visit” for every backpacking route. You can visit waterfalls, hot springs and caves around Pai, or spend the days having a coffee and reading in a hammock with amazing views of the nearby mountains.''Things to do in Pai:''–''Waterfalls.''If you like to swim in natural places, you’ll be glad to know that Pai has hundreds of nearby waterfalls that you can visit during the day. Mor Paeng is probably the most popular one.''–''Pai Grand Canyon.''Visit this amazing place to enjoy an unforgettable sunset.''PAI TO MAE HONG SON''Right after leaving Pai, you’ll find some hot springs where you can enjoy a relaxing bath. When we visited the place, hardly anyone was there, but it can be a popular spot among organized tours. In any event, I don’t think the place is really worth it. If you don’t have much time, I’d skip it.''A bit later, you’ll find a detour to visit the spectacular Tham Lot caves. You can take a bamboo boat that navigates the river into the cave or walk along the marked path and explore the cave by yourself.''Tham Lot caves''Keeping on your way to Mae Hong Son, you’ll find the road to Ban Rak, a little Chinese town on the border with Burma. Located on the shores of a beautiful lake, Ban Rak is a picturesque village with an ancient tea tradition. It’s a good place to take a break, enjoy a cup of tea and have a walk around the nearby tea plantations.''About 16 km before arriving at Mae Hong Son, you can visit the town of Ban Ruam Thai. Known as the Switzerland of Thailand, it grows not tea but coffee … and they say it’s the best in the country! We wanted to see if this was true, so we took a break, sat in a coffee shop and had a cup of coffee. Yes, I must admit, it was delicious!''Around Ban Rak''MAE HONG SON''Mae Hong Son is a popular destination among Thai tourists (especially during the weekends). However, you won’t find many foreign tourists visiting this laid-back destination. I found it to be a lovely place, with an impressive lakeside temple and lively food markets.''Things to do in Mae Hong Son:''–''Wat Phra That Doi Kong Mu.''Located on a hilltop, this beautiful temple offers the best views of the valley.''–''Wat Chong Kham.''Don’t miss a visit to the main temple of the city, right in the central lake.''–''Karen villages.''There are several “long-neck” villages around Mae Hong Son. These villages are much less touristy than those close to Chiang Mai or Chiang Rai.''MAE HONG SON TO MAE SARIANG''A visit to the Mae Suring National Park is one of the best things you can do on this day. Known for its spectacular 100-meter-high waterfall, this is one of the greenest and wildest areas of northern Thailand.''A little farther on you will get to Khun Yuam. If you think you are short of time, this city is a good point to make a decision. Basically, you have two options: You can head towards Mae Sariang (which means adding one or two days to the route) or you can take the road that goes through Doi Inthanon National Park, returning to Chiang Mai. If you have time, I recommend that you continue to Mae Sariang and visit Doi Inthanon Park on the last day.''MAE SARIANG''Mae Sariang is a little town in which you probably won’t find any other “farang” (white tourist). The options in terms of guest houses and travel agencies are quite limited, although there are a few decent choices. The best thing about getting here is feeling that you are really off the beaten path. The region, virtually unknown by foreigners, offers spectacular hikes through beautiful forests and traditional villages.''Visiting villages around Mae Sariang''Things to do in Mae Sariang:''–''Wat Chomchaeng.''Visit this peaceful temple and enjoy a beautiful view from the top of the hill.''–''Markets.''There are several interesting and busy markets to visit.''–''Trekking in Salawin National Park.''I recommend that you hike around the nearby mountains and explore the less-visited Thailand. The area is full of traditional villages in which it seems as though time has not passed.''MAE SARIANG TO CHIANG MAI''If you still have time, take the detour to Doi Inthanon and visit this spectacular national park. This is home to the highest mountain in Thailand and is a real paradise for nature lovers.''WHEN TO GO''There are different, marked seasons in this part of the country, so keep the weather in mind before completing the loop.''From November to February the weather is cool and dry. This would be the most recommended season to visit the region. During March and April most peasants are burning weeds, so there might be some smoke along the fields. April is also one of the hottest months of the year. From July to September you’ll have to bring along a waterproof jacket because the monsoon rains will make the trip somewhat difficult.''RESPONSIBLE TRAVEL:''SHOULD I RIDE AN ELEPHANT?''I would recommend that you''don’t ride elephants while visiting Thailand''. Although some centers do a great job rehabilitating elephants and caring for them, other centers are just tourist attractions where elephants are used for profit. Most of these elephants are ridden for several hours a day, and in many cases they are abused.''Elephants are strong and aggressive animals, and they would never allow anyone to ride them if not for the beatings and abuse to which they have been subjected since they were babies. That’s the truth about elephant rides.''If you want to see elephants up close, you can visit the Elephant Nature Park. There you can touch them, bathe them and even feed them, but no one rides the elephants.''SHOULD I VISIT THE LONG-NECK TRIBES?''Did you know that the famous Thai long-neck women are not Thai? Actually, this tribe, the Karen, is originally from''Burma''and took refuge in Thailand because of a civil war against the government. The Karen women have been using series of rings to stretch their necks for centuries, and although there are several theories about the origin of this practice, the truth is that they have a surprising and unique look.''Karen villages have become a major tourist attraction in Thailand. I admit that I was very curious to see them with my own eyes, so we drove to one of these villages. It’s a complicated issue, as mass tourism has turned these villages into unethical human zoos in which other people benefit from the cost of the entries while the Karen women barely make a living out of their handicraft. However, not all Karen villages work like that. We avoided visiting the villages near Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai, which most organized tours visit.''Instead, we visited a small village near the border with Burma (I don’t remember the name). There were no tourists and we were assured that the price of admission was only for the community.''If you decide to visit a Karen village, follow these recommendations:''– Find a Karen village off the tourist routes.''– Visit a village in which the entrance fee is for the community itself and not for intermediary third parties.''– Don’t stop to take photos as if it were a zoo. Try to learn something about their history and their customs.''Keep in mind that in most cases the Karen have suffered repression and don’t have adequate access to education, jobs or health care. When they are turned into a tourist attraction, these inequities become bigger. On the other hand, tourism is a source of income for them, so it would be difficult to change their situation from one day to the next without strong government support.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the country. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''MAE HONG SON LOOP: OVERVIEW''This is a fantastic trip! If you want to get off the beaten path, don’t miss this part of the country. To get the most out of it, a five- or six-day route would be the minimum to enjoy this paradise properly. Otherwise, you would spend all your time on the bike without being able to enjoy the route.''Rent your bike and have fun!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''I don’t know whether it’s the sharp peaks towering up to the sky or the glacial valleys that rapidly descend below, the bright blue spray of the waterfalls or the lakes at altitude with actual icebergs in, but''Glacier National Park''in northwestern Montana completely captured my heart. \u2028\u2028It’s not the most famous US National Park – or even the most famous in the west – with hikers generally visiting Yosemite and Yellowstone first. But one thing’s to be sure,''Glacier National Park in wows visitors''time and time again and makes everyone who visits question ‘and why haven’t I heard more about this place’?''It’s was once known as “The Switzerland of America” because of its vast glaciers and outstanding mountains, and it certainly reminisces a rustic alpine scene. But it’s not all faux-ski slopes; there’s hidden waterfalls, jaw-dropping aerial views and lakes so dazzlingly blue they look like a photograph with the saturation turned right up.''Yes, this is all real – and it’s Glacier National Park. The Park is a fine example of geology that defined the continent; the mountains and gorges have been demarcated by glaciers over the last ice age, leaving behind picturesque mountainous features; which hikers have the fortune to admire at any time of year.''Hidden Lake. Photo Credit:''Jeff Hitchcok''The park is split into two sections, either side of the Great Dividing Range. The weather can vary differently from either side and the scenery is a treat from both. It’s recommended to spend some time in both sides of the park. \u2028\u2028It’s a famous wilderness destination with over 700 miles of walking trails – as well as an abundance of lakes, scenic drives and waterfalls. You could spend weeks within the park and still not see them all, so here’s some top picks:''HIKES''TRAIL OF THE CEDARS''One of the park’s easiest and most popular hikes,''Trail of the Cedars''is just 0.7 miles long and is wheelchair accessible. A great deal of the hike is on boardwalk, where the extreme heights of the cedar trees can be admired. Some of the trees are over 500 years old and they all tower straight up into the sky. The best part of the trail is the view of Avalanche Gorge; where there’s tremendous vistas over the gushing waters of the falls.''AVALANCHE LAKE TRAIL''Not far from Trail of the Cedars is the 4.5 mile Avalanche Lake trail. This track traverses through intricate and scenic forests with beautiful trees and flora, arriving at the gorgeous alpine lake that is the trail’s namesake.''REDROCK FALLS''The moderately easy hike to Redrock Falls encompasses the gorgeous Fishercap Lake, Redrock Lake and offers impressive landscapes of the huge Mount Grinnel and Swiftcurrent Glacier before finally arriving at the almighty Redrock Falls. The rapids are gorgeous and powerful, and are widely regarded as some of the park’s most spectacular.''ICEBERG LAKE''This 9.7 mile hike explores mountainous landscapes and winding paths through forests to reach the unique Iceberg Lake. Because of the lake’s position underneath steep cliffs, it receives little light and warmth, meaning that icebergs accumulate during the winter months and sometimes never melt. It’s an interesting place to visit during summer; when the temperature at lower altitudes reaches up to 30 degrees here the icebergs remain!''CRACKER LAKE''The impossibly blue Cracker Lake is marveled at by most tourists to the park. The hike to reach it is 13.5 miles long, but not too strenuous and it takes hikers right to the azure waters of the lake itself. The hike is considered ‘backcountry’ and bear sightings are not uncommon; but usual precautions keep hikers safe. The waters of Cracker Lake are not to be missed; and explorers can even camp overnight at the lake to be there for sunrise.''Cracker Lake.''Photo Credit''HIGHLINE LOOP''Highline Loop is one of the most spectacular things to do in Glacier National Park, and is a must for hiking enthusiasts. The track traces the Continental Divide and thus graces hikers with astoundingly stunning natural views. It’s the bucket list hike for Montana for sure!''OTHER THINGS TO DO:''Hiking is without a doubt what makes Glacier National Park famous and with the huge array of hiking trails for all abilities, it is something that every visitor to the park should experience while there. Other great experiences are:''GOING-TO-THE-SUN-ROAD''This beautiful place can either be explored by car or by taking a Western Alpine tour to the peak.\xa0It’s the most popular spot of the park and it takes drivers or passengers to the top of the Great Dividing Range. It offers some of the most spectacular scenery. Those traveling up the road can stand on Logan Pass right at the top of the divide, and enjoy the birds-eye view spread out beneath them.''While fairly expensive (about $40), the tours are a great way to learn about the history of the area and see some of the very best spots. The red buses that traverse the road are the longest continuous running tour in the world, and they are well worth the money and time.''Logan Pass''LAKE MCDONALD''Lake McDonald is a fantastic spot to boat or kayak, perfect for a days’ rest and relaxation after lots of hikes! During the warmer months, swimming is possible, although it can be very cold year-round.''WILD GOOSE ISLAND''It’s\xa0one of the most popular spots in the park. It’s incredibly photogenic, and is a great spot to watch sunrise over.''WHERE TO STAY''There’s a range of accommodation options, including camping and lodges. \u2028\u2028If you want the true outdoors experience, camping will enable you to relish in the very best spots that the region has to offer.''There are 13 campsites within the park, with a range of services. The cheapest are around $6 per night, with the most expensive being about $15.''For an authentic wilderness adventure, backcountry camping in Glacier National Park is a great option. It is only permitted at designated sites and costs $4 per person per night (or $50 for a whole year). The group leader will also need to be briefed on safety procedures. \u2028\u2028Most of the lodges on site are authentic and rustic, and boarders can wave goodbye to some modern conveniences as they enjoy life within nature. Lodge prices start at around $100 per night.''BEARS IN GLACIER NATIONAL PARK''Glacier National Park is home to one of the largest grizzly bear populations in the United States.''While attacks are incredibly rare, it’s very important that visitors take the necessary precautions to avoid a bear attack.''These include:''Make a lot of noise during hikes to ensure that bears are aware of your presence.''If one is encountered, turn sideways to make yourself smaller, and slowly back away.''Tie any food scraps, cooking instruments, scented toiletries and clothes you used for cooking to a tall tree or bear pole.''Carry bear spray and learn how to properly use it.''If one acts aggressive towards you, lie down in the foetal position and protect your face and neck.''Remember that most bear attacks are false and if you do not act aggressive back, they normally stop and walk away.''Other potentially dangerous fauna you may see are the elusive mountain lion – should you see one of these, speak to it in a loud voice and make yourself seem bigger than them. \u2028\u2028You are also very likely to see mountain goats and moose, amongst other creatures.''ARE YOU READY TO EXPLORE GLACIER NATIONAL PARK?''I’m not sure whether it’s because of the epic mountains and valleys, the stunning wildflowers, the variety of animals, the lack of crowds or the welcoming atmosphere of the Montanans but to me, Glacier National Park really is special. Take a trip to Montana, and you’ll be incredibly grateful you did.''– This article has been written by Antoine from Travelinglife –''Antoine is a Canadian who currently resides in the Cayman Islands, but spends a great amount of time travelling and exploring the world; with last country count being at 45! His goal is to eventually visit every country and show you overlooked attractions in each location. Check out his blog''travelinglife''or follow him on''Facebook''.''Next read: Hiking Torres del Paine Trek in Chile''It was the summer of 2016 and the trip of a lifetime was calling. The plan was to travel to the United States to work in a summer camp for the entire summer. Afterwards, I would travel around the States.''When an email arrived informing me of my acceptance to a camp I had been viewed by, I couldn’t believe my luck. It was actually going to happen. I was going to the United States of America.''At the beginning of June I left Manchester Airport and on an inbound flight to London, whereby I would leave for New York City. When you work in one of those camps, you have to apply for a J-1 visa. That visa basically allows you to travel to the United States to do one particular thing and nothing else.''That means that I couldn’t have walked away from the camp halfway through and started working in a bar instead.''The particular type of visa I was granted was valid for three months. After the three months were up, I was allowed a 30 day grace period to travel and roam around the country. That was the travel for after camp sorted. One less thing to worry about, or so I thought.''The particular camp that I stayed in happened to be a day camp. That means that the children would arrive in the morning and then leave again in the evening. There was not any overnight kids, and they didn’t come on the weekend either. That meant that the international staff had a lot of spare time on our hands.''As we were located in New Jersey, each weekend we would travel to locations on the east coast of the US. New York City, Atlantic City, Boston, Philadelphia & Washington D.C. Because of the easy nature of travelling to these places, a lot of the international staff came to the conclusion that a lot of the travelling after camp should take place on the west coast.''We planned to fly up to Chicago, where we would spend a few days before flying to San Francisco. The route that pursued was a drive to Yosemite National Park, Los Angeles and then a week in San Diego.''So there it was. A plan. Surprisingly, a small selection of dedicated international staff booked all of the same flights and hostels together. No hassle. It was a dream come true. I was travelling around the US with some of the best mates I’d ever had, even if I’d only known them for a couple of months. The bond was unique.''Everything seemed to be plain sailing. We travelled through each location, sometimes by bus, sometimes by car. The adventures that we had and the views that we saw along the way were simply breathtaking.''The plain sailing came to an abrupt halt whilst we were in San Diego. Now, before I mentioned about the J-1 visa allowing a grace period to travel the US. But, what I didn’t mention – if you leave the country during your grace period, you cannot re-enter the country.''That’s exactly what we did. Whilst in San Diego, our hostel offered a free trip to Mexico. Without a shadow of doubt and uncontrollable excitement running through our veins, we signed up. What an opportunity.''We set sail for Mexico and we had a ball! Whilst we were there though, we started chatting to the Hostel owner and he asked why we were in the US? Usual conversation. Then he told us about the grace period. Apparently, he had seen many students travel to Mexico on there grace period and be denied entry back into the US, resulting in them having to book a flight home from Mexico.\xa0Thankfully, he made us aware of the ESTA.''WHAT IS ESTA?''The ESTA is an electronic programme that allows citizens of 38 countries enter the United States without a visa. It costs $14 and literally takes about 30 minutes to start the application process and complete it, with a granted ESTA.''The ESTA is intended for tourists and business persons, also those with connecting flights. You can travel to the United States for up to two years on one ESTA, providing that your passport doesn’t expire before that allotted time is up. Quite simply, it’s a great resource to know about.\xa0If you want to avoid a similar circumstance, check out this''helpful electronic guide''.''Needless to say, we all applied for our ESTA and there weren’t any hiccups. We all made it back to the US safe and sound and without any hassle. I dread to think if we had been denied entry back into the US. The image of having to fork out for a new flight home, amongst other things. Not good at all.''If you’re also in a rush and need to apply for an ESTA straight away, visit the''ESTA Official Website''.''Anyway, that’s how ESTA saved our summer in the US. Don’t leave anything to chance. My advice for anybody planning a trip to the US: Plan, and so as much research as possible before leaving.''CHECK OUT THE INFOGRAPHIC!''– This article has been written by Josh from ESTAFORM –''My name is Josh and I live in Liverpool. I love travelling and sushi. I travelled to the US last summer and the ESTA saved my summer, so I created''ESTAFORM''to raise awareness of it!''Take a look; see if it helps you.''Facebook Page''Next read: Hiking in Glacier National Park in Montana''If you’re passionate about photography and travel, you’ll understand why drones are revolutionizing the world. These modern gadgets allow you to take “bird’s-eye” pictures of infinite paradises all over the planet. They offer a different perspective from pictures taken from the ground. Forget about climbing dangerous peaks or tall buildings to shoot breathtaking panoramas. For those who love to make videos and documentaries about their travels, drones open a new range of possibilities and video techniques.''A few years ago, when the first commercial drones hit the market, they were heavy, bulky and expensive. Today’s models are designed to be lightweight, compact and even more affordable. There are many models out there, and finding the right one will depend on your needs.''For long-term travel, look for a drone that is solid, well-constructed and easy to carry. Water-resistance might be a good factor in certain situations, too. Keep in mind that the final price will depend on, among other factors, the built-in camera. Some basic models will do the job, but don’t expect the best photo quality. On the other hand, the most advanced drones have great autonomy and take professional pictures.''So, which is the''best drone for travel''? There are many options with many different features. Don’t worry, though; you don’t have to spend hours comparing models, reviews and prices. I’ve created a list with the best models, so just take a look!''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the''best duffel bags'',''travel laptops''and''adapters''.''COMPARISON CHART:''DRONE''WEIGHT''CAMERA''RANGE''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''DJI MAVIC PRO''1.6 lbs''12 MP''4 K''7 km''27 min''$$$''4.9''PHANTOM 4''3.1 lbs''20 MP''4 K''5 km''30 min''$$$''4.8''PHANTOM 3''2.8 lbs''12 MP''4 K''5 km''23 min''$$''4.7''AUTEL ROBOTICS''3.1 lbs''12 MP''4 K''1.9 km''25 min''$$''4.7''GOPRO KARMA''2.2 lbs''GoPro''1 km''20 min''$$$''4.3''EHAN GHOST 2.0''2.6 lbs''12 MP''4 K''1 km''25 min''$$''4.6''YUNEEK BREEZE 4K''0.8 lbs''13 MP''4 K''100 m''12 min''$$''4.2''DJI SPARK''0.6 lbs''12 MP''1920 FHD''100 m''16 min''$$''4.6''FORCE AF100''3.1 lbs''GoPro''300 m''12 min''$''4.5''PARROT AR 2.0''0.9 lbs''720p HD''50 m''12 min''$''4.1''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 BEST TRAVEL DRONES:''TOP-END:''DJI MAVIC PRO''WEIGHT:''1.64 pounds''CAMERA:''12 MP''VIDEO:''4 K, Full HD 1080p''RANGE:''7 km''FLYING TIME:''27 min''PROS:''Compact, high quality''CONS:''Expensive''“Portability and high-performance”''Check price on Amazon''The''DJI Mavic Pro''is, for many, the best drone for travel, hiking and adventure sports. Why? It offers great video and photo performance while having one of the smallest and most compact designs on the list. You can easily pack it in your backpack without it taking up much room. If we’re talking about autonomy and range, it outranks other models, too. You can fly it for almost half an hour and send it seven kilometers away. That’s pretty awesome!''It’s equipped with the best features, like an automated flight mode, return-to-home functionality, obstacle avoidance and others. It’s the perfect tool for nature lovers and travelers who want to take great shots while keeping their backpacks compact and light. However, if you’re looking for professional photo quality, keep in mind that other drones have better built-in cameras.''DJI PHANTOM 4 PRO''WEIGHT:''3.1 pounds''CAMERA:''20 MP''VIDEO:''H. 264 4 K''RANGE:''5 km''FLYING TIME:''30 min''PROS:''Awesome photography''CONS:''Bulky''“Professional camera”''Check price on Amazon''The''DJI Phantom 4 Pro''is meant to take professional photos and videos. Remember when I said that some drones have better cameras than the Maverick does? I was talking about the Phantom 4 Pro. You can send it into the air and get almost the same photo quality as shooting with your digital reflex.''The built-in camera is equipped with a 20 MP sensor, H. 264 4 K and full HD video recording modes, as well as other useful features. It recognizes subjects, follows them and captures them. It also uses a gesture mode to take selfies without a remote control, avoids obstacles and can follow a route you’ve drawn on the screen while keeping its altitude locked. These are just a few of its features, but there are others. That’s why it takes a while to learn to use it to its fullest.''On the downside, because it has so many features, the Phantom 4 Pro is bigger than other models. Keep this in mind if you’re planning a long trip, because it’s not light either. However, if you’re going to the outdoors for a few days and want to take great videos and pictures, it would be hard to beat the Phantom Pro 4 in quality.''DJI PHANTOM 3 PRO''WEIGHT:''2.8 pounds''CAMERA:''12 MP''VIDEO:''UHD 4K''RANGE:''5 km''FLYING TIME:''23 min''PROS:''Good value for the money''CONS:''Bulky''“Good deal”''Check price on Amazon''The''Phantom 3 Pro''has been on the market for a while because it’s a popular and reliable drone. It’s equipped with a great camera, intuitive flight controls, a vision positioning system that allows for stable flight indoors and a Live HD view. It’s one of the best options for first-timers, as it features a beginner mode to help you learn how to use it in a safe area.''Today, DJI is creating new models with awesome upgrades, so the Phantom 3 isn’t the most featured drone anymore. However, it’s still a great choice and you can get it for a reasonable price. It’s one of the best deals on the list! The only drawback is its size. It’s not really compact and you’ll need a special case or backpack for transport, so it may not be the best option for long-term travel.''AUTEL ROBOTICS X-STAR''WEIGHT:''3.1 pounds''CAMERA:''12 MP''VIDEO:''4K ULTRA HD''RANGE:''1.9 km''FLYING TIME:''25 min''PROS:''Good price''CONS:''Heavy, bulky''“Great for beginners”''Check price on Amazon''The''Autel Robotics X-Star''is a well-designed, solid and reliable drone. It features a 12 MP built-in camera, a beginner mode to get started and a safety mode to prevent battery failure. The remote controller is pretty basic, so you’ll need to download an app on your iPhone to enjoy an HD live video feed from the camera.''Keep in mind that it’s a bit heavy and bulky, the radio control range is quite a bit shorter than that of other “top-end” models and it doesn’t include most advanced features. However, it’s still a great drone at a good price. Thanks to its intelligent flight control system, safety modes, great camera and awesome price, it’s another excellent option for beginners.''GOPRO KARMA + GOPRO 5''WEIGHT:''2.2 pounds''CAMERA:''GoPro''VIDEO:''GoPro''RANGE:''1 km''FLYING TIME:''20 min''PROS:''GoPro compatible''CONS:''Strong fish-eye''“For adventure travel”''Check price on Amazon''The''GoPro Karma''is a great option for adventurers and GoPro lovers. It’s solid, compact and easy to use. You can get the drone only and attach your GoPro camera or buy it with the last GoPro 5 included. This type of camera is great for outdoor sports and adventure travel. The GoPro 5 takes amazing, high-quality photos and videos. The drone is easy to fly, uses a stabilizer system and features a nice controller with a high-quality touch display. You don’t need to use your smartphone.''There are a few downsides. The fish-eye effect is too strong for my liking, it can’t do linear mode video in 4K (only from 2.7K and below) and it’s not equipped with most advanced flying features. However, it has a compact size, records great videos and is built to withstand hard landings.''MID-RANGE:''EHANG GHOST 2.0 VR''WEIGHT:''2.6 pounds''CAMERA:''12 MP''VIDEO:''4K HD''RANGE:''1 km''FLYING TIME:''25 min''PROS:''Price, goggles''CONS:''Not many features''“Great value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''The''Ehang Ghost 2.0 VR''is definitely a good value for the money. You don’t need a radio controller – just your smartphone – to fly it. This helps you pack lighter and makes the Ghost one of the best options for travelers.''Overall, it’s a great drone: it comes with a 12 MP sensor and 4K video mode, as well as safe mode, avatar control and a no-hassle warranty. If you break it, Ehang will replace it or fix it as many as three times during the first year. It includes VR goggles so you can see the world like you never have before.''If you want a kick-ass drone at a very reasonable price, the Ehang Ghost might be your option.''YUNEEC BREEZE 4K''WEIGHT:''0.84 pounds''CAMERA:''13MP''VIDEO:''4K Ultra HD''RANGE:''100 m''FLYING TIME:''12 min''PROS:''Price, lightweight''CONS:''Short hover time, range''“Compact and lightweight”''Check price on Amazon''The''Yuneec Breeze''is very popular among travelers because it’s compact, lightweight and easy to use. It has a great built-in camera that allows you to capture impressive video and photos. You don’t need a controller, just your smartphone, and it’s ultralight, making it one of the best companions for long-term adventures.''Overall, it’s a great drone at a fantastic price. Just keep in mind that the flying range and hover time are quite limited.''DJI SPARK''WEIGHT:''0.66 pounds''CAMERA:''12 MP''VIDEO:''1920×1080 FHD''RANGE:''100 m''FLYING TIME:''16 min''PROS:''Compact, lightweight''CONS:''Short hover time''“Lightweight mini drone”''Check price on Amazon''The''DJI Spark''is the next revolution in drones. Actually, it’s a mini drone! If you’re looking for the lightest and most compact drone, look no further. The Spark will take up almost no room in your backpack and it weighs only 0.66 pounds. However, don’t let its size fool you; the built-in camera shoots great photos and decent video at 1920×1080 Full High Definition.''It features a gimbal stabilization system, intelligent flight controls and a quick launch system that recognizes your face. At only 16 minutes, the hover time is a bit short, but overall it’s a fantastic drone at an affordable price.''BUDGET TRAVEL DRONES:''FORCE 1 F100''WEIGHT:''3.1 pounds''CAMERA:''GoPro''VIDEO:''GoPro''RANGE:''300 m''FLYING TIME:''12 min''PROS:''Cheap''CONS:''Need a GoPro, heavy''“Budget friendly”''Check price on Amazon''The''Force 1 F100''is a great option for those who don’t want to break the bank. Attach a “GoPro-like” camera to the mount and it’s ready to go. The drone is very easy to use and has decent stability for its price. However, keep in mind that it’s a budget drone, so don’t expect the best performance.''PARROT AR 2.0''WEIGHT:''0.9 pounds''CAMERA:''N/A''VIDEO:''720p HD''RANGE:''50 m''FLYING TIME:''12 min''PROS:''Cheap''CONS:''Camera, range''“Basic drone with camera”''Check price on Amazon''The''Parrot Ar 2.0''is an inexpensive drone that can easily be controlled from your smartphone, taking decent – but not stunning – photos and videos. It’s compact and super easy to use. It comes with a few basic features, including automatic piloting, which makes take-off and landing easy. If you want good photos, though, this isn’t your best choice.''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''GOPRO 6 BLACK''Check price on Amazon''The''GoPro Hero 6 Black''will be helpful on your next adventure. It’s the most powerful and easy-to-use GoPro ever.''It features a 12 MP sensor, a 4K60 video mode, voice control and a touch display. If you like snorkeling and scuba diving, you can take it down to 10 meters without a housing. It’s one of the most featured action cameras on the market!''SAFETY''Although some people think of drones as though they were toys, the truth is, they aren’t. Drones are serious devices that can cause damage. That’s why it’s important to follow the regulations of the country you are visiting to ensure a safe experience. Irresponsible use by some pilots has led to the banning of drones in some national parks. In some cases, incorrect use of these devices can lead to serious fines or even jail time.''All models on this list include safety features. Most models, even those designed for short-distance flights, include GPS and automatic Return-to-Home functionalities. This is one of the most important features to consider. If the drone gets out of signal or eventually runs low on battery power, it will start its own way back to the take-off point and land.''LICENSING AND REGULATIONS''There are two situations in which you’d fly a drone:''FLYING FOR FUN:''If this is the case, the requirements are much less strict. However, you’ll have to follow the rules of the''Federal Aviation Administration''(FAA) in the United States, and other countries’ rules if you are traveling.''The basic requirements might change depending on the country. In the U.S.A. they are:''Fly at or below 400 feet''Keep your drone within sight''Never fly near other aircraft''Never fly over people''Never fly over stadiums or sporting events, or close to airports''Never fly near emergency response efforts like fires''Never fly while under the influence''Respect airspace requirements''FLYING FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES:''If you’re planning to fly your drone to work on commercial videos and film productions, and thereby make money, you’ll need to pass an FAA test and get a certification.''This is a serious thing, so make sure you follow all the rules. Avoid fines and never put other people’s safety at risk! In addition to all the regulations, realize that certain places, like national parks in the United States, have banned the use of drones within their air space. If in doubt, ask for permission from the local authorities before you send your drone into the air.''THINGS TO CONSIDER BEFORE BUYING A TRAVEL DRONE:''SIZE''Size is important. Most travelers and hikers appreciate a small, lightweight kit that fits into their backpacks. Sometimes it’s difficult to find a small device that has all the features of a large one, but most manufacturers are working hard on that matter, and new compact models offer awesome possibilities. If you’re looking for something small and portable, make sure it has decent camera and video functions.''WEIGHT''Like size and portability, weight is important. For long-term travelers, adding a few kilos to your backpack can be a challenge. However, some advanced models are amazingly light, weighing less than 500 grams.''CONTROL''Most advanced models include a radio controller, which is usually easy to use and reliable. They offer the best flying experiences. They also provide a higher range, reaching up to 7,000 meters in some cases. On the downside, having a controller means adding more weight and space to your backpack. Other models are controlled from your smartphone. They use a wireless connection between the drone and the smartphone, and the operating distance tends to be quite a bit shorter.''CAMERA''Camera quality is a key factor, especially if you like photography and video. Some models are able to shoot at 20 MP and record video at 4K Full HD. Although most manufacturers include built-in cameras, some drones require an external one, such as GoPro-like cameras.''Most built-in cameras offer 90- to 180-degree fish-eye angles, allowing you to capture a wide field angle of vision. On the other hand, most basic models, costing around $200-$300, include very basic cameras.''STABILITY''Stability will depend on the quality (and usually the price) of the drone. A drone uses a GPS system to maintain a fixed position and make corrections if the wind moves it. In addition, the drone’s control plate stabilizes it in the air. When the wind blows the drone away, it adjusts the propeller motor’s power independently to compensate for the external forces and maintain the desired position.''BATTERIES''Keep in mind that most basic models can’t fly for too long. If you want to use them for a long time, bring along multiple spares or carry a portable charger. However, top-end drones are able to fly for as long as 30 minutes, which isn’t bad at all.''RANGE''Buying a drone to send it 10 meters away and take a selfie might be alright for some people. However, most users want to take awesome aerial shots and videos. Basic models allow the user to control them from a 50- to 150-meter distance, while pro models can be controlled from around 1000 to 7000 meters away. That’s a great range!''FUNCTIONS''If you’re going to pilot a drone for the first time, intelligent flight functions might be a lot of help. While flying a drone isn’t difficult and you’ll learn pretty quickly, taking photos and videos while trying to fly and keeping position is another thing. Fortunately, advanced models can assist you with autonomous video functions.''Other functions, like an obstacle-sensing system, will prevent the drone from hitting anything if you get too close to certain obstacles.''CAN I BRING MY TRAVEL DRONE ON A PLANE?''Generally speaking, you should be able to go through airport controls and embark with your drone without much trouble. However, you must comply with regulations and follow a few recommendations.''Most airlines allow you to bring only one''carry-on bag''on the plane, so you must figure out how to pack everything in one bag. Drones use LiPo batteries, which the IATA considers to be dangerous goods. Thus, their transport must meet the following basic safety requirements.''Never keep your batteries in your checked-in luggage; they must always go with you. They must be charged at less than 30% of their capacity. You can carry only a limited number of batteries with you. This number can vary from one company to another, though it’s usually two or three batteries per traveler.''If you comply with these recommendations, you shouldn’t have any problems when embarking on your next flight.''WHICH ARE THE BEST DRONES WITH CAMERA FOR TRAVEL?''If you still have doubts, let me give you a few recommendations. If you’re looking for the best quality/size balance, the''PJI Maverick''is a great choice. Someone looking for the best photo and video quality should take a look at the''Phantom 4 Pro''. If you want an inexpensive drone with amazing performance, the''Ehang Ghost 2.0 VR''might be your best option.''Have you enjoyed The Best Drones for Travel? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Sling Backpacks for Travel''The Best Luggage Locks for Travel''Top 10 Best Travel Coffee Makers''Top 10 Best Laptops for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''Varanasi, one of the oldest''cities of India''and the world, is also one of the most sacred. Blessed by the waters of the''Ganges River'', it’s a place of pilgrimage for Hindus and tourists. Come to this amazing place and lose yourself in the magic and the energy.''In the few days that I spent in the city, one of my favorite activities was just''sitting on the Ghats''and watching the world go by, but if you are in need of some more action there are a lot of different things\xa0that you can’t miss.''Things to do in Varanasi, India''1. STROLL ALONG THE GHATS''Undoubtedly, it is one of the best things you can do in Varanasi. There are''so many characters around the Ghats''that you won’t believe where you are; it’s really another world as if you’d travelled into a scene from a fictional movie.''Almost all of the ghats are connected together, although depending on the water level it can be difficult to move from one to another.''2. CREMATION''There are several ghats whose main function is to burn the dead. All Hindus with enough money aspire to get here and be cremated in this sacred city.''The show is open and tourists can come to observe. Sometimes you can see''some bizarre scenes''such as a foot that has escaped the fire lying on the ground, or a dog chewing on a hand.''Beware of scams. In this area it is not allowed to take pictures, and if you are taking one, even if it’s from a far place, they are going to be aggressive and ask you for an outrageous amount of money as a fine.''My recommendation,''don’t take photos of the cremations from the ghat''. If you go for a boat ride, you can take pictures from the boat without any problems.''3. BOAT TRIP''If you want to have a good overview of what happens in the Ghats, I recommend a boat trip to admire the beauty of the city.''The rides are cheap''. It can cost a dollar per person if you get three or four people together and negotiate well with the boatman. Usually, the trip takes about forty minutes.''You will see many people''bathing, cleaning clothes, doing purification rituals, etc''. The most beautiful view from the boat is the cremation area where the wood is stored in piles, people congregate and temples draw the background. Feel free to take as many pictures as you want.''4. THE CITY BACKSTREETS''Although not as spectacular as the Ghats,''the nearby streets also have some action'', as well as shops, restaurants, hairdressers, temples and other places where you can walk or get lost in the crowd. It’s not uncommon that these narrow streets are full of cows or goats and monkeys jumping from balcony to balcony trying to find some fruits to steal.''If you approach''the Sikh temple'', you will be invited to share a meal with them. For free!''5. FESTIVALS''There are''several sacred Hindu festivals a year in Varanasi'', so if you are lucky you might see some celebration during your visit.''I was fortunate enough to watch''the Dev Diwali'', a festival in which all the steps are decorated with thousands of candles, and gods descend that day to bathe in the water of the Ganga River. This place is particularly spectacular after sunset.''6. MEET THE SADHUS OR BABAS''One of the things that most impressed me of Varanasi is the amount of Sadhus living here.''These characters devote their lives to prayers and rituals'', and also to smoking pot all day and getting some money from tourists who want to take some photos.''7. MEDITATION AND YOGA''There are several''meditation and yoga courses''if you are interested. Otherwise, just watch how they do it and enjoy the show.''8. MARKETS''Around the streets near the ghats,''there are several markets''where you can find fruits, vegetables and above all, many different colours and scents. Lose yourself in this amazing city and go at your own pace discovering new things to do in Varanasi.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''These are some options that I loved:''Budget:''Roadhouse Hostel''. Simple rooms, awesome terrace and great price.''Mid-price:''Ran Bhawan''. Nice atmosphere and friendly staff.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit India.''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Read Next:''Trekking Markha Valley in the Indian Himalaya''Do you have any question about 8 Amazing things to do in Varanasi? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''If I had to summarize the beauty of''all the Caribbean Islands''in one country, I would say that Saint Vincent and Grenadines is the winner.''From tropical valleys and smoking volcanoes on Saint Vincent Island, to idyllic beaches on the small Grenadines, this is''the perfect destination''for those who like a bit of variety in their travel.''The population, as in most \xa0Caribbean islands, is composed mainly of descendants of African slaves. This is evident in their strong Creole culture, fusion music and colorful markets, as well as in the “peace and love” atmosphere that you can feel in many places.''In general, the local people are very friendly, but I must say that I had never seen such crazy van drivers in my whole life (well, maybe in''India''). In addition to driving 120 km / hour on narrow mountain roads while having a beer, they torture you with incredibly loud “Soca” music. Soca is fine for a while, but after a few hours, I was seriously thinking about jumping out the window!''Things to do while backpacking in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Travel guide''1. SAINT VINCENT ISLAND''Despite being the largest island, Saint Vincent is one of the least visited mainly because its beaches are not really impressive. However, this island is a paradise for hikers. Don’t miss''the trek to La Soufrière volcano,''one of the best hikes in the entire Caribbean.''There is another very interesting place on the northern part of the island. The famous “Owia Salt Pond” is a small attraction where the sea has created some natural pools of pristine waters. It’s worth a visit.''Owia Salt Pond''2. BEQUIA''Right in front of Saint Vincent, is the island of Bequia. The island is mostly a destination for wealthy people, where sailboats and resorts predominate, but you can find some nice beaches as well.''Beautiful Bequia Island. Photo by''simonsimages''. flickr''3. CANOUAN ISLAND''This is an amazing spot to visit on your way through the Grenadines. In the same style as its neighbour islands, it has''beautiful beaches and super friendly people''to talk to every day. In addition, it’s pretty easy to get here since all the boats doing the “Saint Vincent -Union” route make a stopover on the island.''4. UNION AND TOBAGO CAYS''In my opinion,''this is the country’s most spectacular place'', and honestly, it has the most perfect beaches I’ve ever seen.''The Tobago Cays''are unique: a small archipelago full of beautiful beaches, perfect white sand and turquoise sea in all directions.''Travel Budget for backpacking in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. $ 25 / day''We spent a little more than we expected because of the tours we did to the cays. In total, including transport within the islands, tours, accommodation and food,''we spent about $25 / day''.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO SAINT VINCENT & GRENADINES''From Carriacou (Grenada) to Union:''A boat leaves from Carriacou every Monday and Friday. The name of the ship is ” The Obedient”. It costs 40 EC per person, but if you pay 50 EC once in Union, the captain takes you to the airport by car. Then he helps you clear immigration.''Within the islands:''Various boats cover the main route:''Union – Mayreau – Canouan – Bequia -Saint Vincent.''Fast boat, “Jade Sun”'': Monday and Wednesday. Departure: 7 am Price: 110 EC (opposite route on Tuesday and Thursday)''Cargo ship, “Barracuda”'': Tuesday and Friday. Departure: 9 am Price: 75 EC (opposite route on Monday and Thursday)''Cargo ship, “Gem Star”'': Wednesday and Saturday. Departure: 8 am Price: 60 EC (opposite route on Tuesday and Friday)''Route Saint Vincent – Bequia''Due to the proximity of the two islands, there are different boat services every day. The price is 25 EC one way and 45 EC round trip.''FOOD AND DRINK''Union Island is''particularly expensive''in terms of food. I remember that a brick of milk cost about two euros. If you are a backpacker, this is a place to tighten you belt.''Supermarkets in Saint Vincent are a little more affordable, but still slightly more expensive than in the US or Europe.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''Keep in mind that the hurricane season runs from July to November. Still, even during the rainy season you can get a lot of nice sunny days.''Tips for Backpacking in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines''ORGANIZE YOUR TIME''Cargo boats don’t leave every day, so plan your route to avoid getting stuck on some island.''HITCHHIKING''People are very nice on the island of Saint Vincent (especially in the north), so it’s pretty easy to get a lift.''FOOD''Food in supermarkets is quite expensive. Kingstown has a market with reasonable prices and nice meals. In addition, it’s a good idea to bring a stove to cook your own food.''ACCOMMODATION''We did''couchsurfing''in Saint Vincent, so at least we saved something.''Union island. Clifton''.\xa0T.J Plaza Guest House. 85 EC for a double room. Including a small stove, so we could even cook.''Next Read:''Hiking the Boiling lake in Dominica''Did you enjoy Backpacking in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines? Leave a comment!''There is a place in the Caribbean that is special. It’s a place where the sand is white and the water turquoise, a place where turtles swim by your side as you dive in its warm waters. It’s the Caribbean of the movies, books and legends; where pirates seek treasure by deciphering the mysteries of an old map.''Discover''Tobago cays Marine Park'', the most spectacular place in''all the Caribbean islands''!''To get to this marine paradise, you first must to travel to small Union Island, in the south of''the Grenadines,''right in front of the equally spectacular''island of Carriacou''.''Once you have explored the island of Union, you are ready to discover the pirate haven of Tobago Cays. In fact, several scenes from the famous “Pirates of the Caribbean” were filmed here. I remember one scene in which Captain Jack Sparrow and Elizabeth Swann are dancing and drinking rum on a deserted beach. Unforgettable!''Unless you have your own boat (which was certainly not our case), you will have to hire a tour. Believe me: even though it’s a bit expensive, it’s worth it.''On several of the small islands in the archipelago, you can climb up to some hills to get a great view of the infinite turquoise.''Some other islands will surprise you with the beauty of their white sand and the number of turtles you can see while you snorkel close to the shore.''Moreover, the best thing is that although it’s an extremely beautiful place, you won’t find many tourists… mainly because it’s kind of a godforsaken spot!''EXPLORING UNION ISLAND''Looks like we found a real pirate after all''TOBAGO CAYS MARINE PARK TOUR''DON’T MISS PALM ISLAND BEACH''A little relax time''VISITING MORPION AND PETIT SAINT VINCENT''Castaway?''Petite Saint Vincent Beach''We decided to have a well-deserved beer after such a hard day''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO UNION''Every Monday and Friday there is a boat to get from Carriacou to Union. The name of the ship is ” The Obedient”. It costs 40 EC per person, although if you pay 50 EC once in Union, the captain will take you to the airport by car and then help you clear immigration.''HOW TO VISIT TOBAGO CAYS MARINE PARK''There are several ways to visit the Tobago Cays. If you don’t have your own boat, you can hire one departing every day from the small port of Union.''The price is negotiable'', and also depends on the number of people in your group. It should cost about''100 EC per person'', including a visit to Palm Island.''For the visit to Morpion, we hired another tour, paying''100 EC per person'', but we were only two. They took us to Morpion and Petit Saint Vincent. Morpion was really worth it.''There is also a much more luxurious catamaran that makes the same tour every day. Food and drinks are included, but the price is about''$120 per person''– that is to say, four times more expensive than the boats.''FOOD AND DRINK''The islands of the marine park are uninhabited, so bring food and water from Union.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''You can go any time, just keep in mind that the rainy season runs from July to November. However, we went during that season and everything was fine.''Tips for visiting Tobago Cays Marine Park''TOURS''Tours can take different routes. Some include visits to''Palm Island and Morpion Island,''while others don’t. Try to get a tour visiting all those places because they are simply spectacular.''BRING NECESSARY STUFF''It seems obvious, but''don’t forget your sunscreen''because you’re going to spend all day under the sun. Also, you should bring a lot of water and very important, a''snorkel mask''to dive with the turtles.''If you have an''underwater camera''or GoPro: this is the time to take it with you.''ACCOMMODATION''T.J Plaza Guest House''. 85 EC for a double room. Including a small stove, so we could even cook.''Next Read:''Things to do in Dominica''Do you have any questions about Tobago cays Marine Park? Leave a comment!''Mountain lovers can understand what reaching the Himalayas means. It’s a long, tough journey\xa0to get there and admire the highest mountains in the world. A new challenge, another dream come true.''You wake up and it’s cold. You put on\xa0some warm clothes and sit on the edge of a cliff with a cup of tea warming your hands. The wind gently moves the clouds that cover the mountains. Gradually, great snowy peaks emerge, the sun rises, the mist descends and the show overwhelms you. Now you are in a magical place. Take a deep breath and watch. Enjoy your tea and feel the peace surrounding this place that you will never forget.''The Annapurna base camp trek (also known as''Annapurna Sanctuary trek'') can be completed in about 7-8 days, and although you must\xa0be physically fit,''the difficulty is not that high''. With good acclimatization, you can enjoy this wonderful route gracefully, going on your own, without guides.''TRAIL DETAILS''Total distance: 110 km''Time: 7-8 days''Difficulty: Moderate''Maximum elevation: 4,130 meters''Annapurna base camp trek, Itinerary for eight days''Day 1: Nayapul – Ulleri''Day 2: Ulleri – Ghorepani''Day 3: Ghorepani -Poonhill -Tadapani''Day 4: Tadapani – Chomrong''Day 5: Chomrong – Doban''Day 6: Doban – MBC''Day 7: MBC – Annapurna Sanctuary – Chomrong''Day 8: Chomrong – Nayapul''MAP''DAY 1: Nayapul – Ulleri''The adventure begins. After leaving the village of Nayapul, we started our trek into the mountains. The route this day was mainly uphill, with lots of stairs.''The hike to the Annapurna base camp is one of the most popular in the world, so the trails are well preserved. It’s not exactly a wild path; there are a lot of stairs, some paving stones, bridges and signs in many places to make your experience easier.''When we got to Ulleri, we found a nice celebration that brightened the evening with dances, songs and performances of the local culture. It was an excellent welcome.''DAY 2: Ulleri – Ghorepani''We continued our journey uphill. Another day with lots of stairs to reach the small village of Ghorepani. This part of the trek passes through beautiful green areas and rice paddies.''Making friends''DAY 3: Ghorepani -Poon Hill -Tadapani''The plan for the third day was to wake very early and''walk up to Poon Hill'', watch the sun rise over the mountains and keep on the route. The sunrise itself was quite cloudy, so we couldn’t enjoy the show from this viewpoint, which is said to be very spectacular. On the way back to Ghorepani, the sky began to clear up so we could partially see the big mountains for the first time.''On the way from Poon hill to Ghorepani''Lovely Tadapani''Making some more friends''DAY 4: Tadapani – Chomrong''We kept our hike going uphill and downhill before getting to the village of Chomrong, situated in the valley that leads directly to the Annapurna Sanctuary. Chomrong is quite loved by hikers because of the\xa0really good bakery there. I remember how we enjoyed a cinnamon roll and a chocolate cake, with the excuse that we needed to recharge our batteries before the final stage.''Nice people we met on the way''DAY 5: Chomrong – Doban''It was a mild hike this day. Lush cliffs and rivers around us, and a valley ahead constantly calling us. We knew that we were\xa0close to the end.''DAY 6: Doban – MBC''The valley became narrower, or at least that’s the feeling watching the mountains rise around you, making you feel like you’re walking through a terrible gorge.''Finally, we arrived at the Machapuchare base camp, at 3,700 meters. That was the night we slept\xa0at the highest altitude, but we didn’t have\xa0any problems with altitude sickness. All we felt was the excitement of being so close to Annapurna. We were almost there!''Machapuchare base camp''DAY 7: MBC – ABC – Chomrong''We woke up at 4:00 am to get to the Annapurna base camp at dawn. It\xa0was less than two hours away.''Just before sunrise, there we were, enjoying the Annapurna Sanctuary, situated at 4,130 meters high, deep in the heart of the frozen mountains.''The Annapurna base camp is located on a high plateau surrounded by huge peaks in all directions.''Gently, the sun rose, coloring the crests of the mountains. The sky opened and the show began. Definitely, one of the most beautiful places I’ve seen in my life.''After having a hot ginger tea and realizing what we had just seen, we were ready to return. We walked on and on until we got back to Chomrong.''Machapuchare peak, watching us''DAY 8: Chomrong – Nayapul''The last day was quite tiring because our bodies needed a break but it was a long day of walking before getting back to Nayapul and taking a bus to Pokhara. At the end, we left the mountains with our legs destroyed but big smiles on our\xa0faces.''TRAVEL BUDGET FOR HIKING THE ANNAPURNA BASE CAMP''The average budget for accommodation and food was about $ 12 US / day, not including the entrance fee.''Annapurna Conservation Area Project entrance fee / Permits''Foreigners: $ 20 US''Accommodation during the trek''We didn’t pay anything in most of the lodges. You can negotiate to get free accommodation in exchange for purchasing\xa0snacks, dinner and breakfast at their restaurant.''In the lodges of Doban and Machapuchare base camp, it’s harder to negotiate. The price for\xa0a simple bed is about $ 3- $ 4 US, depending on the season.''They usually charge extra for hot showers, heaters, etc.''Accommodation in Pokhara''When visiting Pokhara, I recommend that you stay in''Pushkar Backpackers''. It’s a good place with nice atmosphere, friendly travelers, and cheap food and beers.''Food''Food prices increase the\xa0higher you go. Annapurna base camp is obviously where you will pay the most for\xa0food because everything is transported manually. A bowl of rice with vegetables or some noodles costs about $ 3- $ 5 US.''Transport''The bus from Pokhara to Nayapul costs around $ 2 US.''You can also share a taxi with fellow travelers for about $8 – $10 US.''WEATHER. WHEN TO COMPLETE THE ANNAPURNA BASE CAMP TREK.''The two best seasons for this route are autumn (September to November) and spring (March to May). From December to February there is too much snow and from June to August too much rain.''I was there in October and the weather was pretty good. I was told that it’s worth it to go during the spring, because\xa0the landscape is more colorful.''TIPS FOR TREKKING THE ANNAPURNA BASE CAMP''Poon Hill route''This trek can easily be completed in about 7-8 days. Therefore, I recommend that you take the regular trail going through Ghorepani – Poon Hill -Chomrong to visit different landscapes.''However, if you do not have many days, you can take the shortcut by going through Nayapul – Ghangruk – Chomrong and save one or two days of hiking.''Jhinudanda Hot Springs''Near Chomrong, there is a small village called Jhinudanda, which has some amazing hot springs. The pools are built right next to a wild river surrounded by spectacular views.''Acclimatization and altitude sickness''Although this is not an extremely high trek, it’s very important to ensure\xa0good acclimatization; drink plenty of water and if you are not feeling ok, descend.''Should I take a guide?''The trail is well marked and you will always find people to ask if you are in doubt, so although optional, it is not really necessary to get a guide.''Travel Insurance''Whether you hire a guide or not, I highly recommend that you get a travel insurance before you visit Nepal. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options.''Traveling to Nepal?''Check out\xa0the''Lonely Planet Nepal''and''Lonely Planet Himalaya''Next Read:''Best things to do in Pokhara''Do you have any doubts about Annapurna base camp trek? Please, contact me!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es. There are other affiliate links too.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Paragliding in Pokhara guide: cost, companies and ...''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''Santa Cruz trek: Hiking the Cordillera blanca in P...''Torres del Paine W Trek: All you need to know''If you liked this, please share it:''Nowadays, such a wide variety of travel bags is available that you can get overwhelmed choosing one. If you are a traveler, you’ll need a good backpack. However, that’s not the only option; you can find''lightweight backpacks'',''sling bags'', messenger bags,''duffel bags''and much more. To st honest, I love duffel bags! Sure, I wouldn’t go on a long trip or a thru-hike with a duffel bag – that’s common sense. Still, they can st a great choice for certain trips.''They are super helpful when I go''climbing''. I can pack my clothes,''sleeping bag''and other stuff in my backpack; then I bring a duffel bag in which I keep my''climbing ropes'', shoes and other gear. I also like to bring a duffel bag when I go camping somewhere close and don’t need to hike much, such as when my friends and I drive to a nice lake or hill and pitch our tents there.''Duffel bags''can be useful in those situations because you can carry a lot of things while keeping everything organized.''On my last trip to''Indonesia'', I realized that duffel bags can also be great for short trips as long as you don’t have to walk much. On that occasion, I was traveling with a group (I was working as a guide with a Spanish travel agency) and some people brought duffel bags. It was a backpacking trip but transportation was well organized, so we didn’t walk long distances. We took buses and shared taxis between towns, from the hostel to the terminal, etc. Another advantage is that many of these travel duffel bags have wheels, which is great when you are carrying a heavy bag.''I find''travel duffel bags''to be very helpful because they are resistant and roomy, and you have access to your belongings in a matter of seconds. Choosing a backpack is a very personal decision so think carefully about what you really need. As I said, I would never recommend a duffel bag for long-term travel, but''they can be great for camping, short trips and outdoor sports''so you have a spacious bag to store all your gear. Moreover, they are durable and tough. They are meant to resist weather conditions and physical damage.''Are you looking for the''best duffel bag for travel?''You have come to the right place! As you know, there are many good options! But hey, don’t worry! You don’t have to spend hours reading reviews and comparisons. I’ve done it for you!''Check other buyer’s guides to find the''best packing cubes'',''luggage locks''and''coffee makers''!''COMPARISON CHART:''TRAVEL DUFFEL BAG''SIZES''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''PATAGONIA BLACK HOLE''45L, 60L, 90L, 120L''$$''4.7''PATAGONIA BH WHEELED''45L, 70L, 120L''$$$''4.6''NORTH FACE BASE CAMP''6 sizes from XS to XXL''$''4.6''GREGORY ALPACA''30L, 45L, 60L, 90L, 120L''$$''4.3''HELLY HANSEN 2''30L, 50L, 70L, 90L''$''4.6''NF ROLLING THUNDER''19”, 22”, 30”, 36”''$$$''4.0''MH EXPEDITION''S, M, L''$$''4.0''NF LONGHAUL 30''26", 30"''$$$''4.4''MARMOT LONG HAULER''S, M, L, XL''$''4.7''EAGLE CREEK CARGO''45L, 60L, 90L''$''4.3''ADVANTAGES OF TRAVEL DUFFEL BAGS:''Lightweight''Duffel travel bags tend to be lightweight. After a long walk, they might feel heavy, so it’s important to choose only lightweight models. If you choose a wheeled duffel bag, that’s different. The frame and design of the bag make it way heavier than regular bags or backpacks.''Versatile''You can use your duffel bag in many situations. Even if you don’t need much space, you can squeeze the bag to make it smaller and adapt it to your needs. Depending on the size and regulations, some airlines will allow you to bring your duffel bag as hand luggage.''Resistant''Duffel bags are designed to carry all kind of items, from clothes and climbing ropes to camping gear, so they must be resistant.''Durable''They are made from high-quality materials that last longer. Also, check the quality of the zippers and seams to be sure they are good.''Roomy''There are different capacities and sizes, but duffel bags tend to be roomy and spacious. In addition to the external pockets, there is always a big compartment to keep your clothes organized.''Many straps''Most models have several straps, so you can use hand straps to transport your bag, or you can hang it from your shoulders using a longer strap or shoulder straps. There are many options for wearing them in a comfortable way.''DISADVANTAGE:''Limited usage''As I have mentioned, there are some situations in which I wouldn’t recommend a duffel bag. Basically, they are not comfortable if you must walk a lot. Even if your duffel bag has wheels, not all trails are asphalted, so you will need to carry your bag from time to time.''WHAT DO YOU NEED?''Think about what you need, compare features, sizes and prices, and find the one that best fits your needs!''DUFFEL BAGS FOR TRAVEL, REVIEW''PATAGONIA BLACK HOLE DUFFEL BAG''“Versatile and lightweight”''Check price on Amazon''The''Patagonia Black Hole''is one of the best duffel bags you can find out there. Why? It’s super lightweight (one of the lightest on the list) and it has many pockets and a big main compartment. It’s super versatile, featuring padded shoulder straps, so you can carry it in many ways, like as a bag or even a backpack. If you don’t need the shoulder straps, they are removable.''The bag is made from resistant 900D polyester with TPU laminate and a weatherproof treatment. It’s a perfect bag for holding your climbing and outdoor gear and for short trips. If you are looking for something stylish, it has a beautiful modern design and is available in several colors.''Patagonia is a recognized brand that has been making outdoor gear and clothing for a long time, so the company knows its stuff. The bag is a high-quality product with great resistance and versatility. It has had many positive reviews and has passed several quality tests with great results.''It’s the number one on this list.''Weight:''2.4 pounds (60L)''Sizes:''45L, 60L, 90L, 120L''PATAGONIA BLACK HOLE WHEELED''“Awesome wheeled duffel bag”''Check price on Amazon''The''Patagonia Black Hole Wheeled''is a great choice for those looking for a duffel bag that can be used for almost any kind of trip. There are some differences from the previous model, the most obvious being that it’s wheeled. That means you won’t have to carry your bag most of the time, which will make your trips more comfortable.''The shoulder straps are not padded and it’s heavier because the wheel system adds some weight to the bag. Well, you can’t have everything in the same bag, right? If it’s wheeled, it must be heavier. Still, it’s one of the lightest wheeled bag on the list. It’s designed to be a great duffel bag for city trips and weekend getaways.''It’s easy to transport, resistant and tough, and it has a nice design. It’s made from reinforced 1200D polyester, so it’s meant to be almost “indestructible”. Another amazing Patagonia heavy-duty bag. There are three sizes: 45L, 70L and 120L.''The only downside: it’s the most expensive duffel bag on the list!''Weight:''7 pounds (45L)''Sizes:''45L, 70L, 120L''NORTH FACE BASE CAMP''“Popular adventure duffel bag”''Check price on Amazon''The''North Face Base Camp''is another awesome option for outdoor lovers. It’s been a popular bag for years because it’s lightweight, easy to pack and durable. Even though it’s not completely waterproof, it has a special treatment which can resist water and harsh conditions for a long time. I wouldn’t worry about water as long as you treat it carefully.''It features padded straps too, so you can use it as a regular backpack. There are many pockets to help you organize your gear and it comes in six sizes depending on your needs. If you look at the stuff professional climbers take to the''Annapurna'', Everest and other high mountains, you’ll see North Face bags among their gear.''It’s been on the market for a long time, but that doesn’t mean it’s obsolete. Just the opposite! North Face is very proud of this bag and that’s why the company has been introducing improvements to make it one the best duffel bags on the market. There are many colors (really a lot) and six sizes available at a great price.''Weight:''Depends on size''Sizes:''6 sizes from XS to XXL''GREGORY ALPACA''“Waterproof and resistant”''Check price on Amazon''The''Gregory Alpaca''is a well-designed duffel bag. It’s made from resistant materials and it comes with high-quality zippers and comfortable straps. It’s designed to maximize its interior space and be comfortable to wear.''It’s similar to the Patagonia bag, but the Gregory Alpaca claims to be''totally waterproof'', which can be very helpful in the outdoors. Its heavy-duty handles and straps also claim to be extra resistant and durable.''Overall, it’s a great bag and is becoming more popular. Personally, I love the design and features. You can find it in five sizes from 30L to 120L and four nice, vivid colors.''Weight:''2.8 lbs. (45L)''Sizes:''30L, 45L, 60L, 90L, 120L''HELLY HANSEN 2''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''The''Helly Hansen 2''is the newest improved version of the classic model. What’s new? Though the design of the bag is basically the same, the Helly Hansen 2 contains better materials. The new model is more durable and more water resistant (the company claims that the bag is waterproof).''The Helly Hansen 2 has reinforced straps and high-quality seams, making for a very solid and reliable duffel bag. It has removable padded straps so it can be used as a backpack and it’s comfortable to wear. I don’t think the padding is as good as that in other models, like North Face or Patagonia, but it’s a great duffel bag overall.''It’s made from resistant polyester to confront the harshest weather. It offers internal and external zippered pockets and a separate laptop compartment with padded protection that could be very helpful depending on the nature of your travel.''It packs into a bag, reducing its space, so you can easily store it when you’re not traveling. There are four sizes, from 30L to 90L. This could be a downside for those looking for a big 120L bag to store a lot of gear. Otherwise, 90L should be enough for most people.''It’s a bit more affordable than the other models and you get a versatile, water-resistant duffel bag meant to last for decades.''Weight:''Depends on size''Sizes:''30L, 50L, 70L, 90L''NORTH FACE ROLLING THUNDER''“Tough and durable construction”''Check price on Amazon''The''North Face Rolling Thunder''is another bag you will love. The main strength of this bag is its solid construction. It’s a tough, well-designed bag that ranks over other models as the most durable on the list.''It has almost the same design as its brother, the North Face Base Camp, with some reinforcement to make it wheeled. Both are made from the same resistant materials and have the same pockets and organizational features.''As you may know, durability and resistance come at a price – it’s not a lightweight bag. We know that wheeled bags are rarely lightweight, but if that’s something important to you, I’d choose the Patagonia Black Hole Wheeled, which is a bit lighter.''Overall I find it to be a fantastic, rugged bag for air travel, camping, climbing and other outdoor sports.''Weight:''9 lbs., 14 oz. (80L)''Sizes:''19”, 22”, 30”, 36”''MOUNTAIN HARDWARE EXPEDITION''“Full-featured duffel bag”''Check price on Amazon''The''Mountain Hardware Expedition''is one of the most featured duffel bags on this list. It has more pockets than any other bag in this review. It’s a versatile bag that will help you keep everything organized.''It features internal and external zipper pockets and internal compression straps. It also comes with a special treatment which makes it one of the most water-resistant duffel bags on the list. You can find it in three sizes, only in black. On the downside, it’s a bit heavier than other models.''It has a solid design so you can use it as a carry-on bag or take it on your next expedition!''Weight:''3 lbs., 10 oz. (L)''Sizes:''S, M, L''NORTH FACE LONGHAUL 30''“Easy access”''Check price on Amazon''The''North Face Longhaul''features a nice design with several compartments for easy access to your belongings. It has a large “U” zipper compartment which is great for travelers who want to keep things separated and who may need quick access to their gear. There are several internal and external pockets and compartments.''It has a stylish, classic design and a solid construction. It’s made from high-quality materials to provide resistance and durability. The wheels work well even on grassy fields and the round handle is one of the most comfortable on the list. It has a solid frame so the bag doesn’t bend when you are pulling it. A great option for those looking for an easy-to-transport duffel bag.''On the downside, it’s a bit heavier than other models like the Patagonia Black Hole Wheeled or the North Face Rolling Thunder, (but it’s cheaper).''Weight:''10 lbs., 14 oz. (30″)''Sizes:''26″, 30″''MARMOT LONG HAULER''“Great price”''Check price on Amazon''I like the''Marmot Long Hauler''because it’s a fantastic duffel bag with great features and it won’t break your bank. One of the best values on the list. You can use it as a backpack thanks to its removable padded shoulder straps and take it outdoors.''It’s made from 1000D TPE reinforced polyester meant to hold up in the worst climate conditions and it has several internal pockets. The zippers are thick and resistant, and so are the straps. It has a durable and solid construction that makes it a great choice.''Weight:''2 lbs., 3 oz. (L)''Sizes:''S, M, L, XL''EAGLE CREEK CARGO HAULER ROLLING DUFFEL 90L''“Budget friendly”''Check price on Amazon''The''Eagle Creek''is another amazing budget bag. You get a super lightweight duffel bag with a great capacity of 90L for a very reasonable price. It’s actually the lightest bag on the list.''It passed all water test with very good results, making it a great choice for adventure travel and outdoor sports. This duffel can also be packed into a bag, so you can store it when you aren’t going to use it.''Weight'': 2 lbs., 2 oz. (90L)''Sizes:''45L, 60L, 90L''HOW TO CARE FOR YOUR DUFFEL BAG''Check the manufacturer’s instructions''Most manufacturers provide specific instructions for taking proper care of your bag. This way, you’ll know how to clean it, which products or soaps you can use, whether you can put it in the washing machine, etc.''Store it properly when you’re not using it''If you aren’t going to use the bag for a long time, it’s a good idea to place it in a dust bag. You can use a pillowcase, too. Place your bag in a cool, dry location away from the sun. This way your bag will last much longer, avoiding mold, sun discoloration and other problems.''Avoid getting your bag wet''Something complicated when you are outdoors, I know. It’s alright as long as it’s not wet when you store it. Moreover, most models are water resistant.''WHICH ARE THE BEST TRAVEL DUFFEL BAGS?''If you are looking for a great bag, no matter the price, the''Patagonia Black Hole''and the''Patagonia Black Hole Wheeled''are the best options. On the other hand, if you are looking for good quality while sticking to an affordable price, the''Marmot Long Hauler''might be your bag.''Other travelers also liked:''Travel Adapters''Lightweight Laptops''Passport Holders''Drones for Travel''Have you enjoyed the Best Duffel Bags for Travel? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Drones for Travel''Top 10 Best Travel Coffee Makers''Top 10 Passport Holders''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''We all know that finding the right gear and packing wisely and lightly is essential\xa0for\xa0a challenging hike. Whether you are planning an Appalachian expedition, a short two-day hike or a backpacking trip, a''lightweight backpack''is key to fully enjoying all your adventures.''Thanks to the most advanced technologies, these lightweight backpacks are also comfortable, durable, adaptable and even waterproof in some cases.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best outdoor watches'',''hiking pants'', and''backpacking hammocks''!''OUR LIST:''Gossamear Gear Gorilla 40''Osprey Exos 48''HMG 2400 Windrider 40''Granite Gear Crown VC 60''Mammut Creon Light 45''Osprey Stratos 36''Osprey Aether''Osprey Atmos''The Best Ultralight Backpacks. Comparison''Ultralight Backpack''Volume''Weight''Price''Editor Rating''Gossamer Gear Gorilla 40''40 L''29.4 oz''$$$''4.7''Osprey Exos 48''48 L''37.6 oz''$$''4.9''HMG 2400 Windrider''40 L''32 oz''$$$''4.4''Granite Gear Crown VC 60''60 L''33.8 oz''$$''4.9''Mammut Creon Light 45''45 L''38.7 oz''$''4.0''Osprey Stratos 36''36 L''46 oz''$''4.5''Osprey Aether 70''70 L''79.0 oz''$$''4.6''Osprey Atmos 65''65 L''70.0 oz''$$$''4.8''After more than five years of hiking around the world, I’ve tested lots of backpacks to create this complete list with''the best ultralight backpacks''.''Hiking the Huayhuash Circuit in Peru''If you have always used regular hiking''backpacks''for most of your treks or travels, and you’re not sure whether to choose a lightweight backpack,''take a look at the pros and cons of both options.''A few things to consider when choosing a lightweight backpack:''Regular Hiking Backpacks (50-60 lbs)''Pros:''√''More capacity for long-term hikes or through-hikes''√''Usually more straps and pockets''Cons:''×''Heavier''×''You have to check in at the airport''Ultralight Backpacks''Pros:''√''Small size and comfortable load''√''No need to check in at the airport''√''Of course, they are lightweight''√''Easy access to your gear''Cons:''×''Sometimes not that comfortable with heavy loads''×''Too small if you need a lot of gear''I always tend to think ‘the lighter, the better,’ and you can apply this to both backpacking trips and hiking expeditions. If you can fit what you need in a 40-50 liter backpack, I’d choose an ultralight backpack.''Best Lightweight\xa0Backpack, Review.''The\xa0Best Ultralight Backpacks for Hiking''GOSSAMER GEAR GORILLA 40''The''Gossamer Gear Gorilla''is one of the best lightweight hiking backpacks on the market. It’s perfect for multi-day routes for which\xa0you need a comfortable backpack with a good set of features.''Volume:''40 L''Weight:''29.4 oz''Pros:''Comfortable, durable, good feature set.''Cons:''It’s not cheap.''Recommended for:''Multi-day hikes''Check price on Gossamer''OSPREY EXOS 48''The''Osprey Exos 48''is the best value for the money. It has lots of external storage and a very complete set of features.''Volume:''48 L''Weight:''37.6 oz''Pros:''Best ultralight backpack for the price, much storage.''Cons:''A bit heavier.''Recommended for:''Multi-day hikes, backpacking.''Check price on Amazon''HYPERLITE MOUNTAIN GEAR 2400 WINDRIDER 40''The''Hyperlite Mountain Gear Windrider''is another great option. It’s practically waterproof and comes with lots of external storage and a very good suspension.''Volume:''40 L''Weight:''32 oz''Pros:''Waterproof''Cons:''It’s not comfortable with heavy loads.''Recommended for:''Multi-day hikes.''Check price on Amazon''GRANITE GEAR CROWN VC 60''The''Granite Gear Crown''has more capacity than the previous backpacks. It has a vapor current suspension system that keeps your back cool during hot hikes.''Volume:''60 L''Weight:''33.8 oz''Pros:''It’s super light and has a bigger capacity.''Cons:''It’s not comfortable with heavy loads.''Recommended for:''Long hikes, backpacking trips.''Check price on Amazon''MAMMUT CREON LIGHT 45''The''Mammut Creon Light''has a great suspension system that allows heat and moisture to escape upwards. The front and sides of the pack are well-equipped with lots of useful pockets.''Volume:''45 L''Weight:''38.7 oz''Pros:''Very comfortable with medium loads.''Cons:''A bit heavy.''Recommended for:''Multi-day hikes with heavier loads.''Check price on Amazon''OSPREY STRATOS 36''The''Osprey Stratos 36''is a great option for those who pack small. Even though it’s small, this backpack has plenty of extra pockets and straps, including the Stow-on-the-Go system that allows you to tuck away hiking poles quickly without the hassle of removing your backpack. It’s one of the best options for short hikes.''Volume:''36 L''Weight:''46 oz''Pros:''Super compact''Cons:''Too small for multi-day hikes''Recommended for:''Short hikes''Check price on Amazon''If you need a hiking backpack with a bigger capacity while still having a great performance and being fairly lightweight for its size, I recommend that you take a look at the next models:''OSPREY AETHER 70''The''Osprey Aether 70''is meant to be a versatile backpack with great storage. We aren’t talking about a lightweight backpack anymore. On the other hand, you get great features like a dual-access side pocket, ice axe loops, external hydration compatibility, a front stretch mesh pocket, a hip-belt pocket, inside-out compression, J-panel access, a''sleeping bag''compartment and more.''Volume:''70 L''Weight:''79 oz''Pros:''Great performance''Cons:''Heavier''Recommended for:''Long-term travelers, through hikes''Check price on Amazon''OSPREY ATMOS 65''Another great option for long expeditions or travels. The''Osprey Atmos 65''features an adjustable harness to fit your torso, fit-on-the-fly hip belt pads, dual zippered front panel pockets, side compression straps, anti-gravity suspension and more.''Volume:''65 L''Weight:''70 oz''Pros:''Great features''Cons:''Heavier''Recommended for: Backpacking trips, through hikes''Check price on Amazon''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''Hiking Watches''Hiking Pillows''Filtered bottles''Climbing Ropes''Hiking Sandals''Hiking Camera''Did you like the Top 8 Best Ultralight Backpacks for Hiking Review? Please, leave your comments!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best Hiking gear list for all your treks''Top 10 Travel Backpacks 2018''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''Top 11 Best Lightweight Sleeping Bags for Travel, ...''If you liked this, please share it:''If you are planning a trip and looking for a good''travel backpack'', you have come to the right place!''There are many great backpacks with different capacities, shapes and features, but the only thing that matters is what you really need.''Based on my experience, after more than five years traveling around the world and testing dozens of backpacks, I would choose a backpack as indicated in the following situations:''–''If you are planning a short trip''in which you won’t go hiking, or even a longer trip (if you are able to pack lightly), go for a carry-on backpack. They are comfortable to wear, as well as easy to pack and organize, and you don’t need to go through the check-in desk at the airport… perfect for a backpacking trip around Europe or Southeast Asia!''–''For long-term trips'', especially if you like hiking and will carry a sleeping bag, a tent, some warm clothes and boots, etc., get a 60 to 70 liter hiking backpack. Yes, they will get heavier, but you’ll need that extra space if you are going to explore cold mountain areas. I used an''Osprey Aether 70''during my last trip across the Andes and I couldn’t be happier.''–''If you are looking for a compact backpack''for a day trip or weekend trips, a daypack might be enough.''–''If you need a lightweight backpack for hiking'', have a look at''this article''in which I review the Best Ultralight Backpacks for Hiking.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best camping hammocks'',''tents for backpacking'',''sleeping bags''and''sleeping pads''!''Comparison chart of \xa0the Top 11 Best Backpacks for Traveling:''Backpack''Type''Capacity (Liters)''Price''Editor Rating''Osprey Farpoint 55''Main / Carry-on''40 + 15''$$''4.8''Osprey Farpoint 70''Main / Carry-on''55 + 15''$$$''4.9''Kelty Redwing 50''Main / Carry-on''50''$$''4.7''Osprey Porter 46''Main / Carry-on''46''$$''4.8''Tortuga Travel Backpack''Main / Carry-on''44''$$$''4.7''eBags TLS Mother Lode''Main / Carry-on''45''$''4.7''Osprey Aether 70''Hiking''70''$$$''4.8''Deuter ACT Lite 65+10''Hiking''65 + 10''$$$''4.8''Osprey Atmos 65''Hiking''65''$$$''4.8''Osprey Talon 22''Daypack''22''$''4.7''Osprey Daylite 13''Daypack''13''$''4.6''My friend Jabi and his full-loaded Deuter.''A few thing to consider when choosing the best backpack:''Carry-on backpacks''Pros:''√''Good size and comfortable load''√''No need to check in at the airport''√''The backpack zips open like a regular suitcase''√''Easy to access and pack your stuff''Cons:''×''The suspension system is not that comfortable''×''Sometimes they don’t have a hip belt, so all the weight goes to your shoulders''Hiking Backpacks''Pros:''√''More capacity for long-term trips''√''Comfortable suspension system''√''Lots of straps to carry extra stuff (sleeping pad, tent)''√''Adjustable hip belts to transfer the weight to your hips instead of your shoulders''Cons:''×''Difficult to pack''×''Heavier. We tend to fill available space, so even if you don’t carry much stuff in the beginning, the backpack will end up pretty full.''×''You have to check in at the airport''What do you need?''Do you have doubts about which backpack is better? No worries, I’m going to review the''Top 11 Best Backpacks for Traveling''based on my own experiences along with reviews from other travelers so you can choose the one that best fits your needs:''The Best Backpacks for Traveling. Carry-on Backpacks''OSPREY FARPOINT 55 (40 +15)''“Best all-around travel backpack”''The''Osprey Farpoint 55''is an ultralight, easy-to-pack, full-featured backpack for short- and long-term travel. It comes with a daypack that zips into the main pack, which is perfect for visiting cities or short walks.''Pros:''Great suspension system''Comfortable hip belts''Carry handles on top and side of the backpack''Lightweight''Detachable daypack''You can zip away the hip belt and shoulder straps''Check price on Amazon''OSPREY FARPOINT 70 (55 + 15)''“Capacity and comfort”''The''Osprey Farpoint 70''is exactly the same backpack as the previous one, with a bigger capacity. I wanted to review this model too because it’s good to have extra space for longer trips, when carrying hiking or snorkel gear. Keep in mind that taking off the daypack, you still get a 55 liter backpack, which might be too big to carry on, although it is possible depending on the airline.''Pros:''Bigger capacity''Great suspension system''Comfortable hip belts''Carry handles on top and side of the backpack''Detachable daypack''Zip-away hip belt and shoulder straps''Check price on Amazon''KELTY REDWING 50''“Good value for the money”''The''Kelty Redwing 50''is a lightweight, comfortable and affordable backpack. That’s why it’s so popular among many backpackers and hikers. It features a U-shaped zipper for easy access, a good suspension system and comfortable hip belts.''Pros:''Good size to carry on''Good suspension system''Hip belts''Vented system to prevent a sweaty back''Lots of pockets''Detachable daypack''Good price''Check price on Amazon''OSPREY PORTER 46''“Great backpack for short trips”''The''Osprey Porter 46''is a durable, ultralight and well-constructed travel backpack. It is very resistant and compact. I’d recommend this backpack mainly for short trips. Well, it always depends on how much stuff you need, but this model is pretty simple; it doesn’t feature many pockets and the suspension system is not as good as those of the others.''Pros:''Compact to carry on''Hip belts''Carry handles on top and side of the backpack''Zip-away hip belt and shoulder straps''Very good price''Check price on Amazon''TORTUGA TRAVEL BACKPACK''“For Urban Travelers”''The''Tortuga Travel Backpack''is a good option for short trips or even work trips, as it has a special compartment for your laptop with lockable zippers (also great for digital nomads). I wouldn’t use it for adventure travel, as the suspension system is not that great, but definitely it’s a good choice for a eurotrip.''Pros:''Perfect carry-on size''Interior pockets and compartments''Comfortable shoulder straps and hip belts''Lockable zippers''Special padded compartment for laptop''Check price on Amazon''EBAGS TLS MOTHER LODE''“Affordable and roomy”''The''eBags TLS''is another roomy backpack that is ideal for weekend trips. As with the previous Tortuga Travel, this is a backpack you don’t want to carry for many hours, as the shoulder straps are not that comfortable and there are no hip belts to transfer the weight to your hips. It’s an affordable option for weekends and short trips.''Pros:''Great carry-on size''Interior pockets and compartments''Special padded compartment for laptop''Check price on Amazon''The Best Backpacks for Hikers and Long-Term Travelers''OSPREY AETHER 70''“For adventure travelers”''The''Osprey Aether 70''is a fully featured, resistant backpack. I used mine during my last trip along the Andes range, and I can say it’s an awesome backpack. The Osprey Aether 70 features lots of straps to hold your sleeping pad, tent, boots or whatever you need. Yes, it’s not as easy to pack and it’s not as ultralight as carry-on backpacks. You’ll also have to pay some extra bucks to check in at the airport, but that’s the price you pay for more space and comfort.''Pros:''Great suspension system''Lots of pockets and compartments''Resistant construction''Comfortable shoulder straps and hip belts''Front J-zip for easy access to the main compartment''One of the best backpacks for traveling and hiking''Check price on Amazon''DEUTER ACT LITE 65+10''“Great capacity”''The''Deuter ACT Lite''is another good choice for hikers and long-term travelers. My friend Jabi had this backpack when we crossed South America, and I really like it too. Both backpacks have lots of straps, comfortable padded shoulder straps and hip belts. The capacity of the Deuter is a bit bigger, but I prefer the Osprey Aether 70 because\xa0it is equipped with a front J-zip for easy access to the main compartment. Both are great travel backpacks.''Pros:''Great suspension system''Several\xa0interior pockets''Solid construction''Padded shoulder straps and hip belts''Comfortable with heavy loads''Check price on Amazon''OSPREY ATMOS 65''“Adjustable and comfortable”''The''Osprey Atmos 65''is a great option not only for hikers but for any long-term traveler, as it is fully equipped with lots of exterior and interior pockets as well as many straps for carrying extra gear. It’s very comfortable to wear because it features an adjustable harness to fit the torso length and adjustable hip belts to accommodate different hip sizes.''Pros:''Adjustable harness''Good suspension''Several\xa0interior and exterior pockets''Durable construction''Padded shoulder straps and hip belts''Check price on Amazon''The Best Backpacks for Ultralight Travel''OSPREY TALON 22''“Super Compact”''The''Osprey Talon 22''is a compact and ultralight backpack for those who really want to pack light. If you are OK with doing some laundry evey few days and don’t need to carry much gear, this might be a great choice.''Several compartments''Zippered pockets on hip belts''Compact and lightweight''Check price on Amazon''OSPREY DAYLITE 13''“Affordable, compact backpack”''The''Osprey Daylite 13''is one of the smallest and most lightweight backpacks you can find on the market. Keep in mind that just a few articles of clothing can fit inside. This is more like a daypack for short visits, running, going to the gym, etc.''Lightweight''Super compact size''Several exterior pockets''You can attach it to other Osprey backpacks''Check price on Amazon''Are you looking for a handled GPS for your next hiking adventure? If so,\xa0you have come to the right place!''Whether you are hiking through canyons or volcanoes, or climbing high peaks, these modern devices can be very hepful in many\xa0situations. They will let you know your actual location, the distance left to the final point, the altitude, the orography and much more.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best travel backpacks'',''sleeping bags'', and''hiking sunglasses''!''Comparison Chart of the Top 10 Best GPS for Hiking''GPS''Display Size''Battery Life''Weight''Price''Editor Rating''Garmin Oregon 650t''3.0 inches''16 h''7.3 oz''$$$''4.0''Garmin Montana 680t''4.0 inches''22 h''10.2 oz''$$$''4.1''Garmin Rino 650t''2.6 inches''14 h''11.3 oz''$$$''3.6''Garmin eTrex Touch 35t''2.6 inches''16 h''5.6 oz''$$''4.0''Garmin GPSMAP 64st''2.6 inches''16 h''9.3 oz''$$''4.3''Garmin eTrex 30x''2.2 inches''25 h''5.0 oz''$''4.1''Garmin eTrex 20x''2.2 inches''25 h''5.0 oz''$''4.0''Garmin Fenix 5''1.2 inches''-''3.0 oz''$$$''4.6''Suunto Traverse''1.2 inches''100 hours''14 days''in time mode''2.8 oz''$$''4.3''I know, there are many\xa0different models out there and it’s hard to pick one. That’s why I’ve created this buyer’s guide to help you make the right choice.''A few things to take into consideration before buying the Best Hiking GPS:''Construction''If you go hiking pretty often, odds are you will drop your GPS on the rocks at some point, right? A good handheld GPS must be waterproof, robust and shock-resistant.''Display''A handheld GPS should have a high-resolution display. The size of the screen must big enough for easy reading of the map.''Battery Life''One of the advantages of a handheld GPS over\xa0regular Smartphones is that their batteries last\xa0much longer. You should get a GPS with a minum battery life of 10-12 hours. Moreover, most GPS can use rechargeable batteries as well as alkaline batteries.''Weight''When you go hiking, carrying light gear is important. All the next GPS are pretty light, but keep in mind that some models with larger screens might be a bit heavier.''Features''Most GPS devices are equipped with a barometer to track weather conditions, an electronic compass to indicate the direction and an altimeter to indicate the altitude.''Reception''Some GPS models are more sensitive than others, getting a stronger signal from the satellite even if you are in dense woods. I’ve reviewed only GPS with the best reception.''Topo Mapping System''Not all GPS devices can accommodate topo maps. Some of them have monochrome screens and a basic mapping system.\xa0Getting\xa0this feature usually depends on the price you want to pay\xa0to get the best GPS for hiking. However,\xa0there are some budget options with pretty good topo maps.''Wireless Technology''Some GPS models are equipped with Wi-Fi technology to share tracking data with other devices.''Let’s review the Top 10 Hiking GPS:''TOP-END''GARMIN OREGON 650t''The''Garmin Oregon 650t''is one of the most advanced and sophisticated GPS devices on the list. The high-resolution touchscreen provides excellent readability and includes an 8 MP built-in camera and a very sensitive satellite tracking system.''FEATURES:''Medium size, Touchscreen''Built-in 8 MP camera''Preloaded Topo U.S 100K maps''AA batteries or NiMH battery pack''3-axis compass, accelerometer, barometric altimeter''“Top-end GPS for serious hikers”''Check price on Amazon''GARMIN MONTANA 680t''The''Garmin Montana 680t''is a bit bigger than the previous Garmin Oregon. That makes it a bit heavier, but also easier to read and use, even with gloves.''FEATURES:''Full size, Touchscreen''Built-in 8 MP camera''Preloaded Topo U.S 100K maps''AA Batteries or Rechargeable lithium-ion battery''3-axis compass, barometric altimeter and Wi-Fi tech''“Big device with high resultion”''Check price on Amazon''GARMIN RINO 650t''The''Garmin Rino 650t''is a sophisticad GPS device that has\xa0the advantage of featuring a radio, which is great for hikers traveling\xa0in a group.''FEATURES:''Full size, Glove-friendly touchscreen display''FRS/GMRS radio capability''Preloaded Topo U.S 100K maps''AA Batteries or Rechargeable lithium-ion battery''3-axis electronic compass, barometer and altimeter''“Communicate with other hikers”''Check price on Amazon''GARMIN eTREX TOUCH 35t''The''Garmin eTrex Touch 35t''is a small and lightweight device equipped with the latest technology. Thanks to its compact size, it’s also a great GPS for cycling and other activities.''FEATURES:''Small size, Touchscreen display''Preloaded Topo U.S 100K maps''AA Batteries''3-axis compass and barometric altimeter''“Compact Size and Advanced Technology”''Check price on Amazon''MID-RANGE''GARMIN GPSMAP 64st''The''Garmin GPSMAP 64st''is a simple and easy-to-use device equipped with great reception, a high-resolution screen and wireless connectivity.''FEATURES:''Full size, Buttons menu (no touchscreen)''Preloaded Topo U.S 100K maps''Rechargeable lithium-ion battery and AA batteries''3-axis compass, barometric altimeter and Wi-Fi tech''“Great satellite reception”''Check price on Amazon''GARMIN eTREX 30x''The''Garmin eTrex 30x''is a small and lightweight GPS device with great features. I think it’s a good option for entry-level hikers who don’t want to break the bank.''FEATURES:''Small size, No Touchscreen''Preloaded Worlwide basemap, Can upload Topo maps.''AA batteries''Long Battery Life''Wireless connectivity''“Compact and Lightweight”''Check price on Amazon''BUDGET''GARMIN eTREX 20x''The''Garmin eTrex 20x''is a pretty simple device equipped with the most basic but important features. It doesn’t provide a compass, barometer, altimeter or wireless technology, but you can load topo maps and the quality of the screen is really good.''FEATURES:''Small size, No Touchscreen''Preloaded Worlwide basemap, Can upload Topo maps''AA batteries''Long Battery Life''“Excellent Budget GPS”''Check price on Amazon''In addition to the''Best Handheld GPS for Hiking'', I’d like to recommend a couple of''Hiking Watches''equipped with GPS. One thing is sure: the mapping system of a handheld GPS is way better than the one in hiking watches.\xa0However, a good hiking watch is smaller, lighter and more comfortable to wear. In addition, the batteries run longer and it is usually equipped with lots of features like an altimeter, a barometer, a thermometer, biometrics data and more.''WRIST WATCHES''GARMIN FENIX 5''The''Garmin Fenix 5''is a great hiking watch equipped with GPS (of course), a 1.2-inch high-resolution display, water resistance, heart activity tracking and much more.''FEATURES:''Mesures oxygen levels and heart activity''Altimeter, barometer and compass''Wi-Fi connectivity with your Smartphone''Multi-sport mode''“Top-end Hiking Watch”''Check price on Amazon''SUUNTO TRAVERSE''The''Suunto Traverse''is another good option for those looking for a GPS watch with the most advanced features. You can track your progress with altitude and distance statistics. It also estimates daily steps and calories and connects to your smartphone via Wi-Fi.''FEATURES:''Tracking of steps and calories''Sunset and sunrise times''Storm alarm''Altimeter, barometer and compass''Wi-Fi connectivity with\xa0other devices''“Versatile Hiking Watch”''Check price on Amazon''Conclusion:''I have tried to put together the best GPS’s based on quality, durability, battery life, weight and size. All these models come in portable sizes, so you can fit them in your pocket. If you don’t want to carry a handheld GPS, hiking watches are a very good alternative.''Personally, I love the''Garmin Montana 680t'', which has a bigger display and one of the longest battery lives on the list. If you’d like to get a hiking watch, the''Garmin Fenix 5''is probably the best option.''How to use your GPS''– Some of these GPS’s have many features. Take your time to learn how to use them before you go on a hike.''– Be sure your GPS is fully charged.''– Check out the latest maps and apps and always keep your GPS updated.''– Don’t rely only on the GPS. You should always bring a good map. The satellite might get a poor signal in certain zones.''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks!''Other hikers also liked:''The Best Camping Hammocks''The Best Tents for Backpacking''The Best Sleeping Pads for Camping''The Best Lightweight Backpacks''The Best Watches for Outdoor sports''The Best Hiking Cameras''The Best Ropes for Climbing''The Best Watches for Hiking''National Geographic article about''GPS''Did you like the Top 11 Best GPS for Hiking, Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches Review of 2018''Top 10 Best Sunglasses for Hiking and Outdoor Spor...''If you liked this, please share it:''If you are looking for the''Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking and Camping'', you have come to the right place!''We have reviewed other hiking gear, like''sleeping bags'',''hiking pillows''and''tents for camping'', but having the best sleeping bag is not such a great help if you don’t use a high-quality sleeping pad beneath it.''If you are a serious hiker or backpacker, you probably know how important it is to bring a high-quality sleeping pad on your adventures to keep you warm and guarantee a proper, comfortable sleep.''Follow this buyer’s guide and find the one that best fits your needs and budget!''Comparison chart:''Sleeping Pad''R Value / Temp F''Thickness''Weight''Price''Editor Rating''Thermarest XTherm''5.7''2.5 in''15 oz''$$$''4.6''SeaToSummit Comfort Plus''5.0''2.5 in''25.5 oz''$$$''4.8''Nemo Tensor''30 to 40 F''3.0 in''13.5 oz''$$''4.9''Therm-A-Rest NeoAir XLite''3.2''2.5 in''12.0 oz''$$''4.3''SeaToSummit Comfort Light''4.2''2.5 in''20.5 oz''$$$''4.9''Nemo Astro 25''N/A''2.5 in''23.7 oz''$$''4.6''Big Agnes Q-Core SLX''15 F''4.25 in''18 oz''$$$''4.2''Therm-A-Rest NeoAir Trekker''3.0''2.5 in''17 oz''$$''4.7''Klymit INS Static V Lite''4.4''2.5''19.6 oz''$$''4.7''Big Agnes Air Core Ultra''Rated 35 F''3.5''20 oz''$''5.0''Therm-A-Rest Z Lite Sol''2.6''0.75 in''14 oz''$''4.5''A few things to consider before buying the Best Sleeping Pad for Backpacking :''Air Pads or Foam Pads?''Air pads''are usually the most comfortable option. You can inflate them manually and they provide good insulation and comfort. The downside is that they can puncture on the ground, so you should bring along some repair patches, just in case.''Foam pads''are the traditional pads you have probably seen many times. They don’t inflate, but they are more affordable and lighter. They can be quite comfortable too, but they tend to be bulkier to pack.''Warmth''When we mesure how well a sleeping pad\xa0keeps you warm and insulates you from the ground, we talk about the R-value. The higer the R-value, the warmer you will feel at night.''R-value of 1-3:''For 3-season backpacking trips''R-value of 3-5:''For temperatures around 32°F/0°C''R-value + 5:''For very cold winter expeditions''Length''Keep your height in mind \xa0before ordering a sleeping pad! Your hips and shoulders are definitely the most important parts of the body to fit on the pad. Some people choose shorter and lighter pads, leaving their legs off the mat, but I personally like long sleeping pads that can accommodate my feet, even though they will be a bit heavier.''Budget''A good sleeping pad is a piece of hiking gear that won’t break your bank. You can get a good pad from''as low as $25''.''Let’s review the Top 11 Best Backpacking Sleeping Pads!''The Best Hiking Sleeping Pads. Top-End''THERM-A-REST NEOAIR XTHERM''This is, in my opinion, the best sleeping pad on the list. It combines comfort, weight, warmth, size and durability. You can bring this mattress to almost any adventure, from long backpacking trips to winter hikes.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''5.7''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''15 oz''Pros:''Excellent comfort, Lightweight, Packs very small, Warm''Cons:''Expensive''“Top-end pad for serious hikers”''Check price on Amazon''SEA TO SUMMIT COMFORT PLUS INS''This model features a dual-layer construction. The two independent cell layers provide excellent support, distributing body weight over more cells. The two layers can be inflated independently, providing a great system for fine-tuning the level of comfort.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''5.0''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''25.5 oz''Pros:''Comfortable, Packs very small, Durable, Warm''Cons:''Expensive, Heavier''“4-season backpacking matress”''Check price on Amazon''NEMO TENSOR''This model features NEMO’s lightest-weight fabrics and cutting-edge insulation. The NEMO Tensor features a metalized film layer that provides a great insulation system. It’s a pretty good value for the money.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''Temperatures from 30 to 40 F''Thickness:''3 in''Weight:''13.5 oz''Pros:''Comfortable, Packs very small, Ultralight''Cons:''Not that durable''“Comfortable like a bed”''Check price on Amazon''THERM-A-REST-NEOAIR XLITE''The Therm-a-Rest NeoAir XLite features new, softer fabrics that offer more comfort and durability without adding weight. This model packs smaller than a one-liter bottle. It’s the perfect sleeping pad for through-hikers and adventurers.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''3.2''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''12 oz''Pros:''Ultralight, Packs very small, Comfy''Cons:''A bit noisy''“Light and compact”''Check price on Amazon''SEA TO SUMMIT COMFORT LIGHT INS''This model features hybrid-layer Air Sprung Cell technology. It’s built with a double layer of high-resolution cells in the torso for better insulation and a single layer in the head and legs for reduced weight.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''4.2''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''20.5 oz''Pros:''Good insulation, Quick inflation system''Cons:''Heavier''“Warm and comfy”''Check price on Amazon''NEMO ASTRO AIR 25''This is a great option for those looking for a very comfortable sleeping pad. It features a raised baffle at the head to supplement your pillow. It’s not he lightest on the list but it has a very good price.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''N/A''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''23.7 oz''Pros:''Super comfortable, Good for winter trips''Cons:''Heavy''“Nice pillow”''Check price on Amazon''BIG AGNES Q-CORE SLX''The Q-Core SLX provides resistant construction, synthetic insulation and lightweight fabrics for comfortable sleeping. This is the thickest model on the list.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''15 F''Thickness:''4.25 in''Weight:''18 oz''Pros:''Comfortable, Lightweight, Warm''Cons:''Takes a long time to inflate''“Lightweight pad for cold hikes”''Check price on Amazon''Mid-Range''THERM-A-REST NEOAIR TREKKER''The Therm-a-Rest Trekker is a great option for long-term travelers and hikers. It’s lightweight, warm and durable.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''3.0''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''17 oz''Pros:''Ultralight, Comfortable, Durable''Cons:''Too cold for winter hikes''“Best value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''KLYMIT INSULATED STATIC V LITE''The Klymit Static uses V-chamber body mapping and ultralight insulation to offer you the best rest. It’s a very comfy and warm pad, and definitely a very good value for the money.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''4.4''Thickness:''2.5 in''Weight:''19.6 oz''Pros:''Comfortable, Warm, Affordable, Compact''Cons:''Slightly heavier, but not a big deal''“Great performance at a good price”''Check price on Amazon''Budget''BIG AGNES AIR CORE ULTRA''The Big Agnes Air provides larger outside tubes and a high-volume valve for quick inflation. This model packs very small and is surprisingly durable.''Type:''Air Pad''R-Value:''Rated to 35 F''Thickness:''3.5 in''Weight:''20 oz''Pros:''Compact, Durable''Cons:''Slightly heavier''“Comfortable Budget Pad”''Check price on Amazon''THERM-A-REST Z LITE SOL''This is definitely not the warmest or the most comfortable pad on the list. However, it’s cheap, durable and really ultralight. A great option for backpackers on a budget.''Type:''Foam Pad''R-Value:''2.6''Thickness:''0.75 in''Weight:''14 oz''Pros:''Lightweight, Durable''Cons:''Bulky, Not that comfortable''“Classic, super affordable pad”''Check price on Amazon''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''Other hikers also liked:''Best Hiking Watches''Best Travel Backpacks''Best Tactical Watches''Best Pants for Hiking''Best Filtered Water Bottles''Best GPS for Hiking''Best Backpacking Hammocks''Best Hiking Sandals''Rei article about''How to choose the right sleeping pad''Did you enjoy the Top 11 Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''Best Hiking gear list for all your treks''Top 10 Ultralight Backpacks 2018''Top 11 Best Tents for Backpacking and Camping 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''While many people enjoy the protection and coziness of a tent camping experience, there are some situations in which hammocks camping has many advantages. You can travel faster and lighter and set up your hammock in wild and amazing places, like deep in a dense forest or hanging from huge rocks and trees!''So, what’s the''Best Backpacking Hammock of 2018''? Follow this Ultimate Buying Guide and find the best model to fit your needs and your budget!''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best outdoor watches'',''trekking backpacks'',''backpacking cameras''and''GPS for hiking''!''Comparison chart:''Backpacking Hammocks''Capacity''Weight''Price''Editor Rating''Clark NX-270''1 person''2.9 lbs''$$$''5.0''Exped Ergo Combi''1 person''3.2 lbs''$$$''5.0''Lawson Hammock Blue Ridge''1 person''4.25 lbs''$$''4.5''Hennesy Expedition''1 person''2.75 lbs''$$''4.6''Kammock Roo''2 person''1.4 lbs''$''4.7''Hammock Bliss No-See-Um-No-More''1 person''1.7 lbs''$$''4.5''ENO Doublenest''2 person''1.2 lbs''$''4.8''Grand Trunk Skeeter''1 person''2.2 lbs''$''4.6''Neolite Double Camping''2 person''1.2 lbs''$''4.7''Bear Butt Double''2 person''1.5 lbs''$''4.9''A few things to consider before buying the Best Camping Hammock:''Design''A good hammock will keep your body as horizontal as possible, so you’ll have a better rest. Some of them imitate a traditional camping tent by performing a horizontal down layer, while others feature an asymmetric design that allows your body to mantein a more comfortable position than traditional hammocks.''Protection''If you are going to use your backpacking hammock to take a little nap during the day, you won’t need much protection. But if you are planning to use it as a shelter during your hikes or backpacking trips, you should get some accesories, like an integrated mosquito net and a rainfly.''Insulation''If you are planning to use your camping hammock beyond summer trips, you’ll need to get some insulation to protect yourself from the wind and cold. Among these protections, you can use a sleeping pad, get a double layer hammock, or use an underquilt.''Capacity''Some models are designed to fit two people, which might be a good solution for couples and travel mates. Keep in mind your weight and the weight capacity of the hammock before choosing one.''Budget''Camping hammocks aren’t very expensive. You’ll can get one of the best backpacking hammocks from as little as $60.''The Top 11 Best Hammocks for Camping:''THE BEST BACKPACKING HAMMOCKS. TOP-END''CLARK NX-270''This is probably the best camping hammock you can find on the market right now. This awesome hammock combines a large bed with flexible poles, creating a very spacious feeling.''Best Use:''Harsh weather, All-seasons trips''Features:''Mosquito net, Weathershield, Rainfly, Six pockets, Insulation''Capacity:''1 person''Weight:''2.9 lbs''Pros:''4-season hammock, High-quality product''Cons:''Takes time to set up, Expensive''“Top-end hammock for serious hikers”''Check price on Amazon''EXPED ERGO COMBI''The Ergo Hammock features a comfortable and versatile shelter system ready to withstand any climate. Thanks to its revolutionary design, you will be able to sleep completely horizontally.''Best Use:''4-season hiking trips''Features:''Mosquito net, Rainfly, Two pockets''Capacity:''1 person''Weight:''3.2 lbs''Pros:''High-quality, Horizontal design''Cons:''Expensive''“Comfortable horizontal design”''Check price on Amazon''MID-RANGE''LAWSON HAMMOCK BLUE RIDGE''The Lawson is a very popular hybrid hammock. The patented design allows for use suspended as a hammock or on the ground as a tent. It’s a great option for travelers and all kinds of adventurers.''Best Use:''Backpacking and hiking''Features:''Attached mosquito net, Detachable rainfly''Capacity:''1 person''Weight:''4.25 lbs''Pros:''Horizontal design, Versatile''Cons:''Heavy''“Can use it as a hammock or tent”''Check price on Amazon''HENNESY EXPEDITION''The Hennesy Expedition is a good option for those who like to travel light and\xa0protected, especially in warm climates. It features a big rainfly to protect you from storms.''Best Use:''Backpacking and hiking''Features:''Asymmetrical side closure, Mosquito net, Rainfly''Capacity:''1 person''Weight:''2.75 lbs''Pros:''Resists hard rainfall''Cons:''Too cold in winter''“Versatile hammock for 3-season trips”''Check price on Amazon''KAMMOCK ROO''The Kammock Roo is a simple, affordable and resistant hammock. It’s pretty big, so it fits up to two people. A great option if you are traveling or hiking in warm climates.''Best Use:''Spring-summer backpacking''Features:''High-strenght, 1 pocket''Capacity:''2 person''Weight:''1.4 lbs''Pros:''Durable, strong, Lightweight''Cons:''No mosquito net, no rainfly''“Affordable, summer backpacking hammock”''Check price on Amazon''HAMMOCK BLISS NO-SEE-UM-NO-MORE''Another simple and resistant option for budget travelers.''Best Use:''Backpacking trips''Features:''Mosquito net''Capacity:''1 person''Weight:''1.7 lbs''Pros:''Bug free, Lightweight''Cons:''No rainfly''“Versatile hammock for tropical destinations”''Check price on Amazon''BUDGET''ENO DOUBLENEST''The ENO DoubleNest hammock is pretty similar to the Kammock. Durability, resistance and a good price.''Best Use:''Ultralight backpacking trips''Features:''High-strenght, 1 pocket''Capacity:''2 person''Weight:''1.2 lbs''Pros:''Easy to set up, Lightweight''Cons:''No weather protection''“Great for couples”''Check price on Amazon''GRAND TRUNK SKEETER PRO''The Grand Trunk provides a helpful mosquito net. A good hammock for backpacking trips in tropical countries.''Best Use:''General backpacking and camping''Features:''Mosquito net, 2 inside pockets''Capacity:''1 person''Weight:''2.2 lbs''Pros:''Comfortable, Easy to set up''Cons:''No rainlfy''“Very popular camping tent”''Check price on Amazon''NEOLITE DOUBLE CAMPING''Best Use:''Ultralight backpacking and camping''Features:''High-strenght, 1 pocket''Capacity:''2 person''Weight:''1.2 lbs''Pros:''Compact, Easy to set up, Lightweight''Cons:''No rainlfy, no mosquito net''“Best value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''BEAR BUTT DOUBLE''Best Use:''Lightweight backpacking and camping''Features:''High-strenght, 1 pocket''Capacity:''2 person''Weight:''1.5 lbs''Pros:''Compact, Easy to set up, Ultralight''Cons:''No rainlfy, no mosquito net''“Great affordable camping hammock”''Check price on Amazon''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''Other hikers also liked:''Best Ultralight Sleeping Bags''Best Tents for backpacking''Best Hiking Watches''Best Backpacks for Traveling''Best Sunglasses for Hiking''Best Climbing Ropes''Rei article about''How to choose the right hammock''Did you enjoy the Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks for Camping, Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''Best Backpacking Gear List: Stuff I like''Top 10 Ultralight Backpacks 2018''Best Hiking gear list for all your treks''If you liked this, please share it:''Although I should be writing about adventure travel, hiking routes, or diving in Southeast Asia, today I’d like to talk about blogging and''how I increased by 3 times the traffic to my travel blog''in just 3 months.''I’m going to give you direct advice with examples of what helped me multiply my visits. I will not talk about ambiguous concepts; I’ll go straight to the point!''Just a few months after launching, my blog went from 6,500 to 20,000 visits per month. I know 20,000 visits is not that crazy, but I’m talking about a''very young blog'', and the visits just keep growing!''All the steps I’m going to explain here should work for any blog, whether it is new or not, and whether it is about travel, fashion, or whatever.''Moreover, you should know that the most important thing is not the number of visits, but''the quality''of them. The key is to get visitors who become followers, subscribers, or, even better, customers!''Obviously, it depends on each blog and the strategy to follow, but in my case, getting many visits from Facebook or Twitter does not mean much to me. These social media networks require investing too much time or money, and in the end why would you want many visits if they mean nothing more than numbers?''Follow the next''6 steps to triple your visitors with quality traffic!''In my case, that’s mainly traffic from Google and Pinterest.''First of all, I want to make clear that I’m not a SEO expert or anything like that. This is simply the result of good tips I’ve received from other bloggers (especially Antonio of''theadventurejunkies''; thanks, mate 🙂 ), from hours of searching for strategies on Google, by attending webinars and''travel blogging courses'', and from putting in hard work.''What I mean is that if I’ve done it, you can too!''How to increase traffic to your website. Index:''1. HOW TO MAKE GREAT CONTENT: 3 MASTER TIPS''2. HOW TO BUILD QUALITY LINKS''3. HOW TO FIND THE BEST KEYWORDS''4. THE POWER OF PINTEREST TO INCREASE YOUR WEB TRAFFIC''5. OTHER SOCIAL MEDIA''6. SUPERSTAR BLOGGING''1. HOW TO MAKE GREAT CONTENT: 3 MASTER TIPS''This is a key step, but it’s not as easy as simply writing a good article. Once you have chosen a keyword to write about (later we’ll see how to choose the best keywords), you must make the article stand out from the others.''1.1. Compare results''Enter your keyword into Google and look at the 10 articles on the first page. Read them, analyze them, and think about how you can write an article that is better than those 10. You can inspire yourself by some of those articles and add new and more updated information, new ideas, new experiences, etc.''The goal is to write an article that is better than those 10 on the first page of Google, or at least better than most of them.''1.2. Write an attractive headline!''You’ve heard that 33 percent of clicks go to the article in the first position, 18 percent to the second position, and so on…''However, if you make it to the first page of Google (even if you’re at the bottom), and if you have a really good headline, you can get more clicks than websites ranking above you. In that case, Google interprets this as indicating that your article better suits that search and will move you up.''Examples of''“bad” headlines:''– My backpacking trip in Yucatan for two weeks''– Exploring the South of India''– Hiking in Peru: The Huayhuash Circuit''Example of''“good” headlines:''– How to travel in Yucatan for less than $15 a day''– Top 10 things to do in the South of India''– How to hike the Huayhuash Circuit on your own, without guides!''You want to write a headline that will create''curiosity in the reader''. ‘Hmm,’ he’ll think, ‘how did they make it on a $15 budget? What are the top 10 things to do in India? How did he complete that route without a guide?’ etc.''1.3. You should maintain a regular posting schedule''Maybe you think it would be a good idea to post once a week, or every two days, or as you like, but''make it regular''. This way, your readers will know that you post every Monday, for example, and you’ll create a good relationship with them (thereby developing loyal and regular traffic).''2. HOW TO BUILD QUALITY LINKS''Everything I have just said about writing good content is beautiful and fantastic, but let’s face it; it won’t work if we don’t create backlinks to those posts. Without links, your website is worth nothing online and you will show on page 38 of the Google results.''2.1. How to build quality backlinks''2.1.1 Guest posts''You probably know this one, right? You write an article for another blog (with more authority than yours) so that you can gain more followers and views and, most importantly, links from an important blog to yours.''It is one of the best ways to get a''powerful link''to your blog.''Just after launching my blog, I began to contact other bloggers and I have now written several guest posts. I was lucky to write this article:\xa0“''How to Complete a High-Altitude Hike''” for''theadventurejunkies'', a top travel blog.''Those articles do not bring me much traffic, to be quite honest; however, it is a great way to start building relationships with other bloggers, let people know that you exist in your scene, and get some quality links, making you rank higher in the search results.''– Search in Google for''“guest post travel blog”''and other variations and look for blogs accepting guest posts. Then send\xa0those bloggers an email, telling them you would like to write a guest post for them.''2.1.2 Interviews''This is another fantastic way to get links. Most of the time, when your blog is pretty new, there won’t be many people looking to feature you on their blog. However, if you have interesting content, you can contact the webmaster directly and ask him for an interview! Yes, just like that; a bit cheeky, but it’s all right!''– Search in Google for''“interview travel blog”''and other variations and find blogs conducting interviews of other travel bloggers.''– Contact the websmaster and kindly ask him for an interview. It is best to be brief;''something like this would do'':''Hello “Name”, how are you doing?''First of all, congrats on your great work. I have a travel blog too and I’m trying to do something very inspiring. It’s about ……. “adventure travel or whatever it is.”''This is the url:''I wanted to nominate myself for your next Interview series!''Thank you very much; please let me know!''Sincerely,''If you have an interesting blog, it is very likely you’ll get a few interviews!''2.1.3 Link exchange''There is some controversy about this strategy because Google’s guidelines say you should not contact other webmasters to ask them for a link exchange. (You put a link from your blog on the other website, and vice versa.)''However, link exchanges are something that will also happen naturally and organically.''You shouldn’t focus your link building strategy only on link exchange because it might look suspicious in the eyes of Google. However, a few reciprocal links from/to other blogs should not be a problem.''2.1.4 Lists''Lists are another quick and effective way to get quality links. You can create a list like “''Top 25 Adventure\xa0travel blogs of the year''” or “''Top 10 travel blogs that changed my life'',” etc. (I recommend that you feature only bloggers you really like; otherwise it makes no sense.)''Then get in contact with those bloggers and let them know they have been featured on your list. This is a great way to:''1)''Make relationships with other bloggers,''2)''Get backlinks, as some of them will put up a link back from their blog to yours (typically in their “Press” or “Media Mentions” section), and''3)''Get new traffic and potential followers. (Most bloggers will share your article on their Facebook, Twitter, and other social media accounts as a thank you, and thousands of their followers could potentially go to your post.)''2.1.5 The skyscraper technique''Now, we are going to use''the skyscraper technique''created by SEO expert''Brian Dean''to build new links to the articles we want.''The idea is simple but effective. You remember how I said we should create good content, trying to write something better than those articles on the first page of Google?''Now that we have a fantastic and more up-to-date article than those on the first page of Google, we can do the following:''– Use''ahrefs''(paid) or''Moz Explorer''(free) to enter all the articles on the first page of Google, then analyze them and see''how many links''they have and''where those links come from''.''It says Title and URL of linking page. That’s the website linking to the article.''– Now that you know which websites have links to those articles on the first page of Google, you can contact the webmasters. If you they have links to those articles, why wouldn’t they put a link to your article if it’s better, more informative, and more up to date?''You can send them something like this:''Hello “Name”!''I was looking for articles about (the topic) and I found your page (URL)''I’ve noticed you mentioned (article title). It’s a great post!''I have created a more extensive and up-to-date article about (the topic), with lots of tips. I think it might add value to your post.''It would be great if you’d consider adding it to your page.''Cheers,''This way you are not begging him for a link; on the contrary, you are offering something that will add more value to his blog. That’s why this strategy is so good, because both parties benefit and''there is no need to beg''.''2.2. Good architecture: internal links''Organized architecture will let Google know which articles should take priority over others. I recommend that you create internal links from your articles to others. (Obviously, this linking has to make sense and the articles should be related.)''Personally, I add three or four internal links from each article linking to others related in some way. I don’t recommend that you add a bunch of links to the footer of the post because Google doesn’t place much importance on links added to the footer.''3. HOW TO FIND THE BEST KEYWORDS''How do you find a good keyword? Do you go to''Google AdWords''and look for some combination of words (a long tail keyword) with a large number of searches per month?''It’s not enough!''Imagine you want to write about''traveling to Ecuador''. If you go to Google AdWords, you’ll see that there are 3,000 searches per month for the keyword''“travel to Ecuador”''. One might think, ‘3,000 … mmm … okay, it’s a good keyword!’''Maybe not!''The number of searches is not the only thing that matters. You have to know how easy or difficult it would be for your blog to reach the first page of Google with those keywords!''Most times, it’s better to find keywords with fewer searches, but with more chances to do well on the search rankings.''For example, this keyword:''“backpacking Ecuador”''. Just 110 searches … okay … that’s much less than 3,000 searches, but it may be easier to rank on the first page of Google.''How do you know which keywords are good?''The four systems I know best:''3.1. Using Moz Keyword Explorer (free, with limitations)''Enter your keyword''“travel to Ecuador (or whatever your keyword is)”''in the''Moz Keyword Explorer'', then get several values. Go to where it says''SERP Analysis''.''In the''SERP analysis''you can see the DA (Domain Authority), PA (Page Authority), and number of links for each article on the first page of Google. It also tells you the difficulty for ranking with that keyword (although that depends on the authority of your blog, too).''If you have a new blog, you want to see articles on the first page with low DA and PA,\xa0and having a few or no links.''If most of them have a\xa0high\xa0DA, forget about it! It will be very difficult to rank for that keyword (unless you are able to get many high-quality links to your article).''Let’s see what happens with the other example of the keyword we discussed before:''“backpacking Ecuador”''. I enter it in the Moz Keyword Explorer, then I go to''SERP analysis''and … ta daa!''Many of the articles have very low DA and\xa0PA, and just a few links. In other words, it is very feasible to use that keyword and''rank on the first page of Google''.''In fact, you might have noticed that my article “''Backpacking Ecuador on a budget''” is among the results.''On the first page of Google!''If I had chosen the other keyword''“travel to Ecuador”''I would probably be around the fourth or fifth page of Google. You see? it might have 3,000 keyword searches, but what’s the point if no one is going to read my article?''The problem with Moz Keyword Explorer is that it’s not easy to understand how the PA, DA, links, and difficulty value work. It takes time to learn how to read and interpret all those values.''After five searches a day, the software asks you to upgrade to Pro, which is a good idea if you want to use it a lot.''3.2. Using the MozBar (free)''This is the free version of the previous system if you want to check more than five keywords per day.''You must install the''MozBar extension'', so you’ll see the icon on the top right of your bar.''You can go to Google and search for a keyword. When you have the results, click on the extension and it will show you a box below each result with the PA, the DA, and links to each article.''The problem with the MozBar is that the system itself is slower than the previous one and is also a bit difficult to interpret.''3.3. Using Long Tail Pro (paid)''The''Long Tail Pro''software gives you a similar result as the MozBar, but more detailed, more reliable, and, above all,''easier to understand''. In addition, the software comes with video tutorials so that you can learn how to use it and become a keyword genius.''Enter a keyword and the software gives you hundreds of new ideas for related keywords, plus data about DA, PA, links, link juice, page age, etc. The software analyzes the word and provides a value of difficulty, telling you how competitive it would be to rank for that keyword.''It’s a great tool to determine''which keywords to choose and which not to choos''e. I’ve used it for a few months and I’m very happy with the results. The price is quite good, too.''On the downside, the software is a little slow.''3.4. Using ahrefs (paid)''Ahrefs''is probably the best toolset to research keywords, compare keywords, look at links from other sites, compare yourself with competitors, and much more. It is a very powerful tool for people taking their blogs to the next level.''When you search for a keyword, it gives you an easy-to-understand “keyword difficulty score” for ranking in Google. It has many tutorials explaining how to use the different tools, how to get the most successful keywords, how to compare your position to those of other websites, etc.''Obviously, it’s the most expensive tool of all.''3.5. Using Semrush (paid)''If you’re scared of ahrefs’ exaggerated price (like I am) but are looking for something more detailed than Long Tail Pro, I recommend that you check out''SemRush''.''This toolset also offers great keywords research (assigning a difficulty score to rank in Google), competitor analysis, backlinks analysis, advertising research, and more.''The price of Semrush is more affordable and it works great.''4. THE POWER OF PINTEREST TO INCREASE YOUR WEB TRAFFIC''Pinterest is''an amazing tool for generating traffic''for your blog. We could say that Pinterest works like Google in some ways. People search for keywords and then find a photo related to those keywords; then they click on the photo and go to your blog. This means that the person is actually interested in your article (because they are looking for those keywords), and if they like what you’ve written, you might gain a follower.''This article on''how to use Pinterest''helped me generate good traffic.''I summarize it in the following steps:''1. Create your Pinterest account.''2. Do not pin your photos from your blog to your Pinterest account. You should create a specific photo for each post, upload it to Pinterest, and link to your article.''3. Make vertical photos of an approximate size of 736 x 1200 pi.''4. Place a catchy title in the photo.''5. Use''Pingroupie''to search “Boards” in which you can collaborate and upload your photos.''6. Contact the creators of the “Boards” and ask them to add you as a collaborator.''7. Try to post one photo per day in each “Board.”''In the article I mentioned above, you’ll find more detailed information, but that’s the idea. And believe me,''Pinterest really works!''You can send a lot of traffic to your website!''This is an example of a Pin! By the way,''you could pin it''to one of your “Boards” if you are liking this post; it’s free! 🙂''Public Domain. Photo by''Comfreak''5. OTHER SOCIAL MEDIA''Personally,''I’m not a big fan of social networks''(excluding Pinterest). In my experience, to get a lot of traffic from Facebook or Twitter, you have to be a little “annoying” or “spammy,” or spend money on ads. None of the three convinces me, although I know some bloggers who do very well on social media.''5.1. Facebook:''It’s quite easy to get''traffic from Facebook to your blog'', but I think it is not the best traffic.''I think many people may read your post on Facebook just because they are bored at the office and want some kind of entertainment, not because they are really interested in the post.''If you’re interested in getting free traffic from Facebook, you can send requests to be part of many of the travel groups (or whatever your blog is about) and leave links to your posts when the group rules allow it.''5.2. Reddit:''Reddit''works better than Facebook, in my opinion. You can join groups and leave links to your posts. Some groups are very active, and sometimes you can get hundreds of visits in a matter of minutes just from Reddit. The problem, again, is finding a balance between providing something of interest to the group and leaving tons of links like a spammer.''6. SUPERSTAR BLOGGING''If you want to know how to''monetize your blog'', the''Superstar Blogging course''is one of the best options.''It is helpful both for those who have not yet started their blogs, and for those who already have blogs and want to monetize them.''The course was created by Matt Kepnes. Probably the most successful bloggers in the world. He knows his stuff. Best of all is the private Facebook group to which you have access for being part of the community. It’s totally VIP! Many of the most famous bloggers also took the course and are very active in the group. It’s amazing when you ask something and get it answered by Matt and other Super Top Bloggers!''Think about this course not as an expense but as an investment that you get back when you start monetizing your blog. That’s what I did!''TAKE ACTION!''Start doing good keyword research''using''Moz Explorer'',''Long Tail Pro'',''ahrefs'', or''Semrush''!''Create high-quality content'', better than others, on the first page of Google!''Build good links''to your posts!''Open an account on Pinterest''and create catchy Pins!''Check out some new networks''like Reddit!''Consider taking''the''Superstar Blogging''course to start monetizing your blog!''Did you enjoy\xa0How to increase 3x traffic to your travel blog in 3 months? Share it with other bloggers!''Disclosure: Some of the links in this post are “affiliate links.” This means if you click on them and purchase the item, I will receive a commission. Regardless, I only recommend quality products and services I trust\xa0and believe will add value to my readers.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''If you’re looking for the''best filtered water bottles''for hiking, camping or travel, you’ve come to the right place. Unfortunately, finding safe drinking water while exploring the outdoors isn’t always an easy task. It also depends on the country and the type of activity you’re about to undertake. I’ve found many trails with relatively clean streams. However, how can you be sure that the water is safe? Sometimes, there might be animal feces or even dead animals in streams, and you don’t even know about it. I always like to play it safe and take some extra precautions. If you’re planning to go backpacking or''hiking'', I recommend that you filter or purify the water, even when it looks safe.''If you’re backpacking around the world, you can’t trust some countries’ tap water. Sometimes you drink tap water from a place where a filter is installed, but you don’t really know whether the filter has been well-maintained. When was the last time it was changed or inspected? It’s possible to get parasites, giardia, bacteria and other undesirable organisms, even from drinking tap water. Believe me, I’ve gotten parasites and several bacteria throughout my years of travel. In addition, dirty water might contain heavy metals, excess minerals and chemicals you want to avoid. That’s why I now use a filtered bottle or drink only bottled water. I don’t want to spend any more time in a hospital.''There are many options out there: portable filtered water bottles, UV purifiers, special filters, chemical treatments, etc. Some models are bulkier, more compact, more expensive, more versatile, safer, etc.''Don’t worry, you don’t have to spend hours comparing models and reviews. I’ve done it for you! In this article, I’m going to explain the main differences between water treatments and review the best filters and purifiers so you can find the one that best fits your needs.''OUR LIST:''Lifesaver''Grayl Ultralight''Camelbak UV''Mountop UV''Lifestraw''MSR Miniworks''Sawyer Filter''Camelbak Groove Tritan''Brita Water Bottle''Aqua Tablets''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the best''hiking sunglasses'',''sleeping pads'',''hiking pillows''and''tents''.''COMPARISON CHART:''WATER PURIFIER''TYPE''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''LIFESAVER''FILTER''$$$''4.6''GRAYL ULTRALIGHT''FILTER''$$''4.8''CAMELBAK UV''UV''$$$''4.7''MOUNTOP UV''UV''$$''4.0''LIFESTRAW''FILTER''$$''4.8''MSR MINIWORKS''FILTER''$$$''4.5''SAWYER FILTER''FILTER''$''4.7''CAMELBAK TITAN''FILTER''$''4.0''BRITA BOTTLE''FILTER''$''4.0''AQUA TABLETS''CHEMICAL''$''4.6''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE BUYING A FILTERED WATER BOTTLE FOR HIKING''THE MATERIALS''There are many materials out there. Some people like stainless steel water bottles because they have no plastic components, preserving a neutral taste. If you prefer a synthetic bottle, which tends to be lighter and cheaper, you must choose BPA-free material. BPA means Bisphenol-A, an estrogen-imitating chemical used to produce many plastic products. These chemicals have been reported to have adverse health effects in humans.''TYPES OF HIKING WATER BOTTLES''Carbon filters''The carbon filter is simple and effective. These are the most common filters found in commercial filtered water bottles. They work well because they contain a large surface area of activated carbon through which the water passes, removing chemicals and contaminants.''The amount of waste accumulated depends on the fineness of the filter. At a certain point, after regular use, these filters accumulate a lot of waste and can lose their effectiveness. That’s why it’s so important to follow the manufacturer’s instructions and replace them periodically.''They are very effective at removing many chemicals, such as copper, cadmium, nickel, selenium, etc., as well as bacteria, giardia and other dangerous microorganisms. By removing many chemicals, they usually alter the taste of the water, making it better. Keep in mind that they can’t filter certain viruses if the viruses are too small.''Ultraviolet filters''These are not so common among backpackers and are usually more expensive. UV filters use UV rays to penetrate microorganisms and destroy them by attacking their genetic core. They don’t remove chemical compounds from the water but they are more effective at killing bacteria, viruses and other undesirable pathogens. They don’t alter the taste of the water.''Chemicals''You can also purify your water by using chemicals. The biggest advantage is that you don’t need any filter, just a bottle of water. The most common chemicals you can find are drops and tablets, and they are usually cheap. There are two downsides: They tend to give some taste to the water and, more important, you’re adding chemicals to the water instead of eliminating them. It’s alright if you use them from time to time, but I don’t recommend this option for someone who needs purified water pretty often.''WHAT DO THEY FILTER?''Our goal when using a purifying system is to eliminate the maximum amount of undesirable''contaminants''and pathogens. The main groups are:''Chemicals''It’s very common to find hundreds of chemicals in water. Some of them, like certain minerals, are good in the right percentage, while others can be very harmful to our health. Sometimes there are high concentrations of fluoride, copper, salts of arsenic, radium, aluminum, mercury, cadmium, barium and others. If you’re not sure about the quality of the water, use a filter.''Bacteria, Giardia and Parasites''You can find bacteria and other microorganisms in water, especially if you’re drinking from a river, lake or other source. Not all bacteria are harmful and our bodies can tolerate many of them. Unfortunately, there are some dangerous pathogens like legionella, enterococci, amoeba, giardia, shigella, etc. that can produce diarrhea, vomiting, dysentery and other diseases.''When you’re traveling, you also must be very careful about what you eat, as many of these pathogens can be found in food as well.''Viruses''Many viruses can be found in water, and they are much smaller than bacteria. This sometimes makes them difficult to avoid, depending on the purifying method we are using. UV filters get the best results when it comes to killing viruses.''WHY DO WE NEED TO CHANGE THE FILTER?''Carbon filters trap contaminants in water and they wear out at a certain point. The surface area of the filter becomes filled and no more impurities can be absorbed. You must change the filter before it gets to that point.''HOW OFTEN DO YOU NEED TO CHANGE THE FILTER?''The recommended frequency of filter changing might vary depending on the size and type of filter being used. To ensure the filter keeps reducing contaminants and pathogens, replace it according to the manufacturer’s recommendations.''BATTERIES''You won’t need to worry about batteries as long as you’re not using a UV filter. If you decide to get a UV-filtered water bottle, always keep a set of backup batteries, especially if you’re going outdoors. You don’t want to run out of batteries in the middle of nowhere and realize that you can’t purify your water.''THE SOURCE OF WATER''Considering the source of water is very important before you chose the right filter. To explain, if you take tap water and use a filter, most of the time you’ll get safe water. On the other hand, if you take water from a stream or river, it’ll depend on the quality of the water and the type of filter you’re using. Basic $10 models are designed mainly to purify tap water. If you think you’re going to be taking water from any unsafe source, you’re going to need something more heavy duty. That’s why some models on the list can cost up to $200 or $300. They use the most advanced systems to guarantee that you’re filtering out all the pathogens.''Think about the places you’re going to visit and the possible sources of water in those places. You won’t get the same water quality in Brazil as you will in Ethiopia. Check out the manufacturer’s indications to make sure your filtered water bottle can purify water from “questionable” sources.''If you’re an adventure traveler or backpacker, I recommend that you spend a bit more and get a high-quality filtered water bottle.''ADVANTAGES OF FILTERED WATER BOTTLES''Save money''You can save a lot of money using filtered water bottles. I know some of them might be pretty expensive, but you’ll eventually come out ahead because you can reuse your filtered water bottle as much as you want. If you’re in a touristy destination, paying $2-$3 every time you get a water bottle, you’ll end up spending much more.''Stay healthy and hydrated''By using a filtered bottle, you can get safe water everywhere and avoid getting sick. That’s the point, right? Plus, you’ll always have water at hand. This is very important when you’re hiking or practicing outdoor sports because of the water you’ll lose. You must drink regularly to prevent dehydration.''If you’re not hiking, but just backpacking, you’ll be sweating a lot, depending on the destination. Traveling in tropical destinations or the Middle East with a backpack can be pretty hard. Drink plenty of water and keep yourself healthy!''Avoid altitude sickness''When you’re hiking in high areas, your body must acclimatize progressively. There are a few steps you must follow to acclimatize correctly, and drinking plenty of water is one of them. By using a filtered water bottle, you’ll be able to get water almost anywhere in the mountains and get your body hydrated.''Eco-friendly''In the world we live in today, we must have a responsible and respectful attitude towards Mother Earth. There are some things we can’t change, but let’s focus on those we can. When you buy a regular water bottle, you’re helping produce more and more plastic that, unfortunately, often ends up in the streets, rivers and oceans. You can help protect our planet by reusing the same bottle.''DISADVANTAGES''Space''They will definitely take up some space in your backpack. For the minimal backpacker, there are a few alternatives, like filters (without the bottle) and chemical purifiers.''REVIEW OF THE BEST FILTERED WATER BOTTLES FOR HIKING. THE MOST EFFECTIVE.''LIFESAVER''Check price on Amazon''“For questionable sources”''The''Lifesaver''is a high-quality filtered bottle for those looking for the best performance. You can filter up to 4000 liters before you need to replace the filter. That’s a lot of water! It will last more than five years if you drink two liters of water per day. The water filter uses a special technology that filters out bacteria, cysts, parasites, protozoa and viruses from questionable water sources.''It’s one of the most effective filters on the list, and, thus, it’s quite expensive. The Lifesaver might be the best option for hikers and campers – those who will be in the outdoors for days or weeks. It’s meant to remove the smallest bacteria and viruses, and it’s one of the best options to filter water from questionable sources.''You have to pump up the water through the filter, purifying 750 milliliters of pressurized water in less than a minute. You can drink the clean water straight from the bottle or you can pour it into separate bottles. It’s ideal for hiking groups because it filters water pretty quickly, so you can get filtered water for everybody in just a few minutes.''If you’re traveling to a place where you’ll need to filter contaminated water, you can count on the Lifesaver!''Recommend for:''Hikers, military, adventurers''Pros:''Very effective''Quick''Filters up to 4000 liters''Cons:''Expensive''Bulky''GRAYL ULTRALIGHT WATER PURIFIER''Check price on Amazon''“Super effective”''I love the''Grayl Ultralight''because it removes 99.999% of bacteria, protozoa and viruses, and it doesn’t break your bank. It also filters several chemicals like chlorine and benzene, and heavy metals like lead and arsenic. The manufacturer says that you can get clean drinking water from pretty much any fresh water source in the world. It’s also very easy to use.''You don’t need to pump the water through the filter, or use batteries or UV systems. Just fill the bottle and press. That’s all. If you compare it with the Lifestraw, you don’t need to suck the water; you get a bottle of clean water to use as you please. That’s a big advantage if you need fresh water to wash your face or brush your teeth.''It eliminates bad taste and odor and improves flavor. It’s the best value for the money for those who need to purify water coming from suspicious sources. I keep thinking that the Lifesaver has a better performance but it’s also bulkier and way more expensive. This is definitely one of the best filtered water bottles for hiking.''Recommend for:''Hikers, adventurers''Pros:''Effective''Reasonable price''Cons:''Replacements filters are expensive''CAMELBAK ALL CLEAR UV''Check price on Amazon''“Great UV system”''The''Camelback''uses a UV treatment to purify water. Thanks to its energy-efficient design, the UV filter can last for 10,000 cycles, which is a lot of purified water! UV purification filters don’t remove bad taste and odor, but they are very effective at killing the worst pathogens, including small viruses.''It uses one of the best technologies to neutralize microbiological contaminants. Every time you replace your rechargeable lithium ion batteries, they will last for more than 80 cycles on a single charge. Just double check your batteries before you go outdoors!''Overall, it’s a good system and you can be sure it will kill all microorganisms, even from questionable water sources. However, there are a few things I don’t like: You depend on batteries, the electronic cap is a bit heavy and it’s an electronic item, so you must be very careful to not drop it. Personally, I’d rather go with the Grayl ultralight.''Recommend for:''Backpackers, outdoor explorers''Pros:''Very effective''Easy and quick to use''Cons:''Expensive''It doesn’t remove chemicals''You need batteries''MOUNTOP UV''Check price on Amazon''“Includes a flashlight”''The''Mountop UV''is another great option if you’re looking for UV purification systems. It works in a similar way, killing 99.99% of the DNA in bacteria, viruses and protozoa.''The price is also similar, and it has the same drawbacks: You must be careful not to run out of batteries and it’s more fragile than regular bottles because of the electronic parts. The main advantage of the Mountop UV is that it features an SOS emergency flashlight, which can be helpful in some situations.''Personally, I don’t like to bring much electronic gear when I plan a long hike. Even if you have everything all charged, you never know what might happen, and running out of batteries when you need them is frustrating! I guess it could be a good option for those going on a short camping or backpacking trip.''Recommend for:''Campers, backpackers''Pros:''Very effective''Flashlight''Cons:''You need batteries''It doesn’t filter chemicals''OTHER OPTIONS:''The next filters and purifiers are designed for hiking and camping. However, keep in mind that they don’t\u2028remove viruses.''LIFESTRAW 2 STAGE FILTER''Check price on Amazon''“Versatile and affordable”''The''Lifestraw''is one of the most popular water bottles among hikers and backpackers. Why? Because it removes 99.9999% of waterborne bacteria, including E. coli, and 99.99% of protozoa, including giardia and cryptosporidium. It has a great price and will last for a long time because it can purify up to 1000 liters of water before you need to replace the filter. It’s not the cheapest on the list, but you’re getting a great product for an affordable price. It’s definitely a good value for the money.''The filter uses an advanced and efficient hollow fiber membrane system to remove pathogens. There are two stages. The first stage removes the microorganisms and chemicals and the second stage reduces the chlorine and the bad taste.''The bottle is made of BPA-free tritan to avoid contaminating plastic components. If you want to travel lighter or don’t have much space in your backpack, you can leave the bottle at the hostel and bring only the straw. That way, you can drink straight from a stream using the straw.''It’s lightweight, fast and easy to use, and you can get replacement filters separately. It’s a good option for outdoor lovers and travelers.''Recommended for:''Travelers and hikers drinking from clean streams''Pros:''Lightweight''Versatile – you can use only the straw''Cons:''It doesn’t remove viruses''Effort is required to suck water through the straw''MSR MINIWORKS EX''Check price on Amazon''“Get safe water into a hydration bag”''The''MSR Miniworks Ex''is popular among hikers because you can get safe water in the outdoors very quickly. It removes bacteria and protozoa and will work fine filtering water from streams.''It doesn’t remove viruses, so this might be a deal-breaker depending on where you’re going, though it’s hard to find viruses in most North American streams.''This model is designed to pump one liter of water per minute and then store it in a bottle or water bladder. MSR has many compatible hydration bags available.''I think it’s a good option for camping or hiking in groups. You get safe water in a matter of minutes and can store it as you like.''Recommend for:''Hikers, campers''Pros:''Versatile''Compatible with hydration bags''Cons:''Expensive''Bulky''Doesn’t filter viruses''SAWYER FILTER''Check price on Amazon''“Super versatile”''I like the''Sawyer''filter because it’s ultralight, compact and versatile. The filter itself won’t take up much space in \u2028your backpack, and you can use it with one of your water bottles or with the included drinking pouch.''It comes with a straw, too, in case you want to drink directly from your water source. It removes 99.9999% of \u2028all bacteria and protozoa. Although it doesn’t get rid of viruses, it’s a very popular filter used by many \u2028satisfied hikers all over the world. It will work just fine as long as you drink from clean streams.''The filter will work for up to 100,000 gallons, which is a lot of water. It includes a reusable squeeze bag, \u2028a drinking straw and a cleaning plunger. It’s one of the best options for the minimal hiker.''Recommend for:''All outdoor lovers''Pros:''Lightweight and compact''Effective''Inexpensive''Cons:''Doesn’t filter viruses''FOR TAP WATER''Important:''The next filtered water bottles are designed to purify water from, let’s say,''“safe” sources, mainly tap water. If you think you might need to filter water coming from a questionable source, don’t get any of the next models.''CAMELBAK GROOVE TITAN''Check price on Amazon''“Nice design”''The''Camelbak Groove Titan''will turn tap water into safe, clean water. It helps reduce odor and bad taste, and it significantly reduces chlorine levels.''The cap is made of BPA-free polypropylene and the bottle is made of BPA-free coplyester. It’s lightweight, affordable and durable. You can wash the bottle – but not the filter – in the dishwasher.\xa0If you accidentally wash your filter in the dishwasher, the manufacturer recommends that you discard it and get a new one.''I would recommend this for general backpacking or as a regular water bottle. You can bring it to the office, gym, park, etc. Just keep in mind that the water source must be reliable. Don’t use it with wild water.''Recommend for:''Filtering tap water''Pros:''Affordable''Nice colors''Cons:''Doesn’t remove pathogens''BRITA FILTERED WATER BOTTLE''Check price on Amazon''The''Brita water bottle''is another good option for filtering tap water. The main difference from the Camelbak is the filter durability.''The Camelbak will filter up to 48 gallons while the Brita filters only 40 gallons. Brita recommends that you change the filter every two months with regular use.''Its main function is to reduce chlorine, bad taste and odor. Overall, you get a nice water bottle for an affordable price.''Just keep in mind that you shouldn’t use it in the outdoors!''Recommend for:''Filtering tap water''Pros:''Affordable''Cons:''Doesn’t remove microorganisms''CHEMICAL PURIFYING SYSTEM''POTABLE AQUA TABLETS''Check price on Amazon''You don’t want to carry a water bottle all the time but want to be prepared?''Potable Aqua Tablets''might be your best option.''They make questionable water suitable to drink. They are used worldwide by hikers,\u2028backpackers and military personnel.''You must drop the tablets as indicated by the manufacturer and \u2028wait for 35 minutes. After that, you can drink safe water.''Personally, I don’t like the taste they give the water but I’ve used these tablets a few times and they do \u2028the job. The source I was taking the water from was questionable, as there were animals around \u2028the stream. However, I was fine after drinking the water.''Recommend for:''Emergencies, backpacking, hiking''Pros:''Compact''Lightweight''Cons:''You use chemicals''WHICH ARE THE BEST FILTERED HIKING WATER BOTTLES?''As you’ve seen, there are many models and systems for getting purified water. If you still have doubts, let me give you a few suggestions. For those looking for something affordable and suitable for general backpacking and hiking, I’d go with the''Lifestraw''. If you’re an outdoor person and want to get the most effective filter for questionable sources, I’d go with the''Grayl Ultralight''because it removes all pathogens and is way cheaper than the Lifesaver. Moreover, you don’t need to worry about batteries.''For the minimal hiker, the''Sawyer filter''might be the best option. It’s effective, cheap and ultralight.''TIPS FOR FINDING A “SAFE” WATER SOURCE''When you’re hiking, you need to be hydrated! Everyone’s needs will vary based on their bodies, but generally speaking, you should drink about one liter for every two hours of hiking. The problem is, finding water might be difficult, and even if you find it, the source might be questionable. Let me give you a few tips for finding and keeping safe water:''1- Carry your own water.''Yes, I know it’s nothing to do with finding it but sometimes you’ll need to carry your own water, like when you’re hiking in deserted areas. If you do so, drink regularly but moderately. You don’t want to run out of water in the middle of nowhere. If you need to carry your own water, I recommend that you get a hydration bag or bladder. They’re practical and you can usually keep more water than you could in water bottles. Another advantage: You don’t need to stop and take off your backpack.''2- Avoid rivers and lakes.''There are different opinions with respect to this. It really depends on the river and the lake. However, small lakes can host many bacteria and viruses. Sometimes, there are houses whose sewers go straight into nearby lakes. In relation to rivers, they cover huge areas, so it’s pretty easy for them to get contaminated in a certain spot. It might be a dead animal, nearby towns, etc.''3- Try to find streams.''Streams are usually the safest options when hiking. That said, you must be careful because they can be contaminated, too. Take a look at the stream and analyze the source. Is it coming from a glacier? Straight from the mountain? If you can easily find the source of the stream, that’s a good thing. If it’s coming from a hill where you can find cows, goats and other animals, it’s probably contaminated.''FILTERED WATER vs BOTTLED WATER''Most people drink tap water every day, especially when they’re home. But when you go outdoors or travel, you’re going to drink mainly filtered water or bottled water. What are the differences?''Drinking mineral bottled water while traveling is a popular option. Mineral water contains several salts and minerals that are beneficial for your body and that hydrate you at the same time. The main drawbacks are the price and the environmental impact. These bottles can be expensive in tourist destinations and are usually made of plastic, leading to more plastic waste. You shouldn’t refill them because there are some chemicals in the plastic bottle that can be harmful.''I’ve found distilled drinking water in many countries (commonly in India). By distilling the water, you get a different type of water. While distilled water might be safe to drink, it has a flat taste and doesn’t provide as many minerals as filtered tap water or bottled mineral water. According to some experts, drinking distilled water from time to time might be beneficial for your health, but you shouldn’t drink it daily for a long time, as you can experience a harmful loss of potassium, chloride and magnesium. To be quite honest, I’m not a big fan of distilled drinking water myself; I don’t like the taste at all.''I find filtered water to be the best option. By using a filter, you get rid of 99.99% of undesirable pathogens and harmful minerals. As mentioned before, it’s important to consider the source of the water. If water is contaminated, it won’t become safe through use of a regular filter. There are specific water processes for that.''HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR FILTERED WATER BOTTLE''Check out the manufacturer’s instructions for disassembling and taking care of your filtered water bottle and its components. Most instructions will show you how to clean your bottle, too. There are a few considerations that apply to most water bottles:''– Don’t use bleach or other cleaners with chlorine on any part of the product.''– Don’t wash the filter in the dishwasher. If you accidentally do so, replace it with a new filter.''– Wash your bottle with soap and your filter with fresh water. Keep them in a dry place, protected from the sun.''Other adventurers liked:''Hiking Pants''Hiking Sandals''Hiking Cameras''Have you enjoyed the Best Filtered Water Bottles for Hiking? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches Review of 2018''Best Hiking gear list for all your treks''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''Are you looking for the''best packing cubes for travel?''You’ve come to the right place! When I started backpacking, back in 2007, I traveled with a small backpack, a few t-shirts, some underwear and a sweater. However, that changed when I crossed the Andes from Colombia to Argentina. It’s a long journey visiting damn cold places, so I needed a lot of gear and warm clothes.''Having so much stuff in your backpack might be overwhelming sometimes, and keeping everything organized is hard. Packing your luggage is one of the most annoying parts of travel for many people. I guess you get better at it after a few years of traveling, but most of the time it’s stressful and time-consuming. What about those times when you search your backpack but can’t find your headphones, guidebook or scarf? You end up taking pretty much everything out of the backpack because it’s a real mess inside, right? I found packing cubes to be a great help in those situations.''Whether you’re on a backpacking trip, a weekend getaway or a hiking route,''packing cubes will help you keep everything organized''. You’ll have easy and quick access to your clothes, it’ll be much easier to pack and unpack, and you’ll have more space in your backpack or luggage. By keeping everything well-organized and compressed, you’ll easily fit more clothes in your backpack, maximizing space.''I think they’re especially helpful if you’re planning to use a single backpack or luggage for several people, like traveling with kids. You can easily keep things separated, making your life and your holidays much more pleasant.''There are many models out there and it’s not easy to make the right choice. But don’t worry! You don’t have to spend hours comparing models and reviews. I’ve done it for you! I’ve created an amazing list so you can find the one that fits your needs.''OUR LIST:''Shacke Pack''Bagail''Ebags''Eagle Creek Pack-it''Travelwise''Zerogrid Set''Sea to Summit Light''Eagle Creek Specter''Ebags Slim''Eagle Creek Slim''Check other buyer’s guides to find the''best duffel bags'',''travel adapters''and''travel drones''.''COMPARISON CHART:''PACKING CUBES''PIECES''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''SHACKE PACK''4''$$''4.9''BAGAIL P. CUBES''4''$''4.8''EBAGS P. CUBES''3''$$''4.9''E. CREEK STARTER''3''$$$''4.8''TRAVELWISE''5''$''4.6''ZEROGRID SET''3''$$''4.5''STS LIGHT''1''$$''5.0''E. CREEK SPECTER''3''$$''4.8''EBAGS SLIM''3''$''4.7''E.CREEK SLIM''1''$''4.8''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE BUYING A COMPRESSION PACKING CUBE''WHAT ARE PACKING CUBES?''Packing cubes are small travel organizer bags in which you can pack your clothes and other belongings. Most of them are zippered, rectangular and made of fabric but there are more options. Some are square shaped, circular or like tubes and are made of synthetic materials. Some are even waterproof. The best packing cubes for travel are made of ultralight materials and feature a mesh side so you can spot your clothes quickly.''They’re usually sold in packs, with it being common to find three or four pieces in different sizes within the same set. They’re designed to help you organize your belongings and maximize the space in your luggage.''There are many advantages of using packing cubes when traveling. However, it depends on what you’re looking for. Some people love to use them, while others prefer to organize things their own way. Find out how they could help you!''DO I NEED PACKING CUBES?''It really depends on the type of travel and your preferences in terms of organizing your belongings. Many people find packing cubes worthwhile because the cubes make their trips less stressful. If you don’t have much luggage and consider yourself an organized person, able to easily pack everything efficiently, you probably don’t need packing cubes.''However, if you need to bring a lot of clothes and gear and want to prevent your backpack from becoming a jumbled mess, packing cubes might be quite helpful. I find them very useful for families, too. I can imagine that traveling with kids must be hard sometimes. Packing cubes will help you keep your kids’ clothes at hand when you need them.''I like to use packing cubes for hiking, too. It’s important to keep your gear and clothes well-organized when you’re outdoors. At the same time, you don’t want to bring many things because your backpack will get heavy. That’s why I bring just one packing cube for my clothes. Some have separate compartments, so you can keep your dirty clothes away from the clean ones. Keeping everything compressed is another good trick to optimize the space in your luggage.''WHAT SIZE SHOULD I GET?''Although there are several options, the best packing cubes for travel come in different sizes.''Typically, you’ll get three sizes: small, medium and large. You can buy single and double packing cubes if that’s what you need.''The size will depend on your needs and your luggage. I find that medium packing cubes work well for backpacking, while large packing cubes tend to work better for big luggage. The small ones can be of help in organizing and holding underwear, for example.''Keep in mind that sizes are not standardized and some brands consider medium what other brands consider large. However, there are no big differences and most sets offer similar sizes.''If you’re not sure how many packing cubes you’ll need and their sizes, think about the suitcase or backpack you’re going to bring. Most of the time, two packing cubes (small and medium) will be enough for backpacking while three packing cubes would be recommended for large suitcases.''I recommend that you get a three-piece set. This way, you can use one, two or three pieces depending on the trip and your preferences. If you can fit everything into just one or two packing cubes, that would be great. I always recommend packing as light as you can.''EXTRA FEATURES OF PACKING CUBES''In addition to sizes and designs, there are a few extra features in the best travel packing cubes.''DOUBLE SIDED''Double-sided packing cubes are great for hiking and scuba diving trips. You can keep your dirty and wet clothes in the water-resistant compartment, while keeping your clean clothes in the main one. They’re the best option for keeping certain clothes separated.''FLEXIBILITY''Some models are more compressible than others. It depends on the material and the design. I like those that don’t have a solid structure because they can fit much better in your backpack. I recommend that you get flexible packing cubes. They will easily adapt to the shape of your suitcase or backpack.''WATERPROOF''If you like going outdoors, your backpack might get wet more often than you’d like. A few models are made of waterproof materials to protect your belongings from unexpected weather conditions. It depends on your preferences, but I don’t recommend this type of packing cube unless you’re almost sure that your stuff will get wet, like if you’re going on a scuba diving trip.''Some models are water-resistant, which can be a good solution for hikers, divers and adventurers. They aren’t completely waterproof, but will protect your belongings from the rain while still being breathable.''PROTECTION''In addition to storing your clothes, some packing cubes might be great for keeping and protecting your electronic gear. Some models feature special padding and strips to secure your camera, tablet, iPhone, etc.''ADVANTAGES OF PACKING CUBES:''Organize clothing''They provide an easier way to keep your clothes organized. You can use one for your shirts and another one for your underwear, your kids’ clothes or anything you need to bring on your travels.''Minimize wrinkles''When you’re backpacking, you can’t expect your clothes to always be neat and wrinkle-free. However, you can reduce wrinkles by using travel packing cubes. If you’ve just ironed a shirt and you keep it inside a packing cube, it will be kept in the same position throughout the trip, keeping wrinkles to a minimum.''Easy to find what you need''I hate that feeling when you need something from your backpack and you have no idea where it is. You have to literally take all your stuff out of the backpack, find what you’re looking for and pack again. By using packing cubes, you’ll know where things are and you can find everything you need in a matter of seconds.''Many ways to use''You can use your packing cubes in many ways. You can keep electronic devices, travel accessories and other items inside them. Some people use them for cosmetic or personal hygiene bags. Depending on the situation, you can even use them as a comfortable pillow!''Maximize space''One of the biggest advantages of packing cubes, besides keeping everything organized, is that you can compress your clothes inside them. This way, you maximize your space, fitting more clothes into your backpack or suitcase.''The can be washed''Packing cubes are designed to be washed. They’re made of resistant materials with strong seams. If you use them to keep dirty clothes, don’t worry! You can wash them from time to time in a washing machine.''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 BEST PACKING CUBES FOR BACKPACKING AND TRAVEL''SHACKE PAK 4 SET''Check price on Amazon''“Popular packing cubes”''The''Shacke Pack''is one of the most popular packing cube sets you can find on the market. These packing cubes are perfect for any kind of traveler because you get four different sizes to adapt to your needs.''You don’t need to bring all of them. Try to pack wisely and avoid overpacking with these practical and versatile cubes.''They’re made of quality water-resistant nylon and reinforced with special stitching to provide the best packing experience. They’re meant to be resistant and durable! I’d like to point out that these cubes are a bit deeper than most cubes on the list, giving you extra space to fit in a few more clothes.''They’re a good choice for backpackers and hikers because they protect your clothes from getting wet. In any event, keep in mind that they’re not totally water resistant, as they have a mesh screen to easily identify your belongings, but it’s extra water protection that most cubes on the list don’t have. The pack includes a laundry bag that, even though it’s not really resistant, is a nice extra to have.''Features:''High quality.\xa0Deep cubes.\xa0Several sizes.\xa0Laundry bag''Recommended for:''Backpacking, travel, outdoors''BAGAIL PACKING CUBES''Check price on Amazon''“Versatile and resistant”''Bagail Packing Cubes''are durable, practical and lightweight. The pack includes four different cubes, so you have one for every type of accessory, from clothing to shoes.''They’re made from durable, resistant nylon and include mesh fabric on one side so that you can spot your belongings and get what you need in a matter of seconds.''They use special YKK zippers that look strong and resistant. Every cube includes a little handle in case you need to carry them independently. They don’t provide the same water resistance but they work just fine for most travelers.''Overall, these are high-quality cubes, providing comfort and portability during your travels. That’s why they’re so popular among all kinds of travelers; they help you organize, pack and unpack all your clothes tightly, saving time and space. A laundry bag is included in the pack to keep your dirty clothing separate from your fresh clothes.''Features:''Many colors.\xa0Versatile.\xa0Laundry bag''Recommended for:''General travel''EBAGS PACKING CUBES''Check price on Amazon''“Great overall performance”''The''Ebags cubes''are a popular option among backpackers, weekenders and many other travelers. Ebags produces a lot of high-quality bags, and this is no exception. The company is so proud of its products, it offers a lifetime warranty if you want to try these packing cubes.''They’re made from resistant diamond nylon, and feature reinforced interior seams, premium YKK zippers and interior zippered compartments to keep everything organized. There’s breathable mesh so you can see what’s inside and find your belongings.''They’re lightweight and practical. The pack includes three different sizes that you can choose from depending on your needs, and it’s available in 10 colors. If you need a few packing cubes to keep your clothes organized, these might be a great option.''Features:''High quality.\xa0Sturdy construction.\xa0Great zippers''Recommended for:''Travel and backpacking''EAGLE CREEK PACK-IT STARTER SET''Check price on Amazon''“High-quality product”''The''Eagle Creek Pack-It Starter Set''is a great option for organizing your clothing. Eagle Creek is a popular brand and its products are durable and trusted. The high quality of the product is its most remarkable feature.''It’s made from super-resistant 300D nylon with a breathable mesh on top of the cube. It has a solid but lightweight construction, and features strong zippers and holders.''The set includes three cubes that you can use to organize just about anything. There’s a cube, a half cube and a medium folder cube.''The folder cube is great for pants or shirts (it can hold about eight to 12 shirts). You can fold your clothing around the folder board and keep it tidy and folded. You can use the cubes to organize other clothing, like t-shirts, underwear, socks, etc. If you need to bring electronic gear, sunglasses or other items, you can use the smallest cube. I find it to have a sturdy construction.''I’d recommend this for those who travel with many shirts, and who want to keep them folded and nice. It’s definitely one of the best packing cubes sets for travel! It’s not the cheapest set on the list, but the difference between it and other models is not significant.''Features:''High quality.\xa0Folder board.\xa0Sturdy''Recommended for:''General travel''TRAVELWISE 5 PIECE''Check price on Amazon''“Super versatile”''The''Travelwise 5-Piece set''offers packing options for all kinds of travelers. You get one small, two medium and two large cubes to store and organize whatever you need. It’s a very versatile set, as you can simply use the cubes that fit better in your backpack or suitcase.''It’s a great way to optimize and maximize space. It’s made from resistant, high-quality nylon fabric, meant to be durable and lightweight.''It has a very attractive price for the quality and quantity. I find it to be a very good set for people traveling with kids or on group trips. Otherwise, it contains too many cubes, in my opinion. If you’re a single traveler, I’d suggest that you bring two or three cubes at most. The lighter you travel, the better.''Features:''Versatile.\xa0Several sizes''Recommended for:''Family trips''ZEROGRID SET''Check price on Amazon''“Nice design”''The''Zerogrid set''will help you pack and unpack in a matter of seconds. It has a sturdy construction made from high-quality 420D ripstop nylon, and it features resistant YKK zippers and reinforced front panel and side handles. You can fit the three cubes into a big suitcase or use just one or two of the smallest cubes for backpacking or short trips.''If you need easy and quick access to your clothing, the Zerogrid might be your best option. The breathable mesh is so big, it fills pretty much the entire front panel. This way, you’ll spot what you’re looking for instantly.''It includes a water-resistant bag that you can use for dirty clothes or shoes. Overall, it’s a high-quality set and I love its simple design, all in black.''Features:''Nice design.\xa0Resistant.\xa0High quality''Recommended for:''Backpackers, travelers''SEA TO SUMMIT TRAVELING LIGHT''Check price on Amazon''“Ultralight and compact”''The''Sea to Summit Traveling Light''is my favorite choice on the list. As a backpacker, I find that it’s perfect for organizing clothing and maximizing space. I think it’s one of the best packing cubes for backpacking because it’s ultralight and durable and it packs really small when not in use.''There are three sizes available depending on your needs. The small size is 7x10x4 inches, the medium is 10x14x4 inches and the large is 12x16x4 inches.''If you want to keep your clothes tidy and organized in a well-constructed, super lightweight cube, this might be your best choice. I find it very helpful for hiking and outdoor activities because it’s made from water-resistant Ultra-sil fabric. It’ll work just fine if you find some rain on the way, and it’ll dry up quickly. However, keep in mind that it has breathable mesh, so it’s not completely water resistant.''Features:''Lightweight.\xa0Packs small.\xa0Water resistant''Recommended for:''Ultralight backpackers and hikers''WATER-RESISTANT CUBES''EAGLE CREEK PACK-IT SPECTER''Check price on Amazon''“The best water protection”''The''Eagle Creek Pack-It Specter''is another great option for outdoor lovers. We’ve reviewed a few decent, water-resistant packing cubes, but most of them don’t provide the best water protection, as they have breathable mesh and some water will eventually get in the cube. The Eagle Creek is made from 30D silnylon that protects your belongings from water.''The fabric all around the cube is translucent, so although there’s no breathable mesh, you can see what you’re looking for through the fabric. There are three sizes (large, medium and small) in this pack, but you can get them separately in different sizes and shapes.''I recommend it for hikers, adventurers and campers looking for lightweight, water-resistant cubes. However, keep in mind that although the fabric is water resistant, it’s not completely waterproof. If you go hiking and you think it might rain quite a lot, protect your backpack with a good cover.''Features:''Lightweight.\xa0Water resistant''Recommended for:''Hiking, outdoors sports''SLIM PACKING CUBES FOR TRAVEL''EBAGS SLIM 3PC''Check price on Amazon''“Maximizing space”''The''Ebags slim pack''is a good solution for those who don’t need to bring much clothing on their trips. There are three practical packing cubes with the same slim size: 2.8x14x5 inches. These cubes are well-designed, sturdy and durable, and they’re great for organizing your underwear, socks and t-shirts. They’re some of the best packing cubes for eliminating wasted space in your backpack!''They feature YKK resistant zippers, strong seams, useful holders and breathable mesh. Ebags is a high-quality brand, so you’ll get a limited lifetime warranty on this product.''It’s a very popular set among backpackers because the shape of the cubes fits well in most backpacks. I’d also recommend it for outdoor adventures! I personally like the set in black, but you have 13 colors to choose from. Plenty of options!''Features:''Great design.\xa0Resistant construction.\xa0Many colors''Recommended for:''Backpackers, travelers, outdoor lovers''EAGLE CREEK PACK-IT CUBE SLIM''Check price on Amazon''“Perfect for your underwear”''The''Eagle Creek Pack-It Slim''is the last packing cube on the list. It’s not a set but a single cube with a reduced size and slim shape, which can be the best option for keeping some of your clothes tidy and organized. There is no breathable mesh because it’s meant mainly to hold your underwear, socks, etc. It’s made from 300D super-resistant micro-weave polyester and features two-way zippers for easier opening and closing.''I recommend it for weekend trips and minimal backpackers.''Features:''Nice design.\xa0Resistant.\xa0Durable''Recommended for:''Short trips, backpacking''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''MOUNTAINSMITH RAIN COVER''Check price on Amazon''“Rain cover”''As we’ve seen, some packing cubes on the list are water resistant. However, if you’re planning to go \u2028hiking or camping and you expect heavy rains, they won’t withstand much water. I recommend that you get \u2028a proper rain cover for your backpack if you don’t have one. I like the''Mountainsmith''rain cover \u2028because it’s effective, affordable and available in four sizes. Get your backpack ready for the \u2028outdoors!''WHICH ARE THE BEST PACKING CUBES FOR TRAVEL?''Have you found what you were looking for? If you still have doubts, let me help you with some suggestions. If you’re looking for a sturdy and well-constructed set with several sizes, I’d go with the''Shacke packing cubes set''. If you need your cube to be water resistant, the''Eagle Creek Specter''would be your best option.''I also recommend the''Sea to Summit packing cube''for the minimal backpacker.''HOW TO AVOID USING PACKING CUBES THE WRONG WAY''1- DON’T PACK TOO MANY THINGS''It’s easy to overpack when you see that you can fit several cubes in your backpack. That might be the main\u2028disadvantage of using packing cubes. You tend to pack more things and forget the most important rule: \u2028Pack as light as possible! Most backpackers are quite aware of this because they must carry their heavy \u2028backpacks during the trip.''2- DON’T OVERFILL OR UNDERFILL THEM''Overfilling your packing cubes isn’t a good idea. You can break the zipper or experience problems \u2028closing the bags. Moreover, you’ve probably overpacked your luggage, making it heavier. On the other hand,\u2028if you underfill it, the clothing will shift around and get more wrinkled.''3- DON’T USE THE BIG ONES TOO OFTEN''If you have different sizes, try not to use the big one too often. You can quit using it gradually if necessary. \u2028The idea is that it’ll help you pack lighter and smaller, trip after trip.''Other Travelers also liked:''Best Sling Bags''Best Coffee Makers''Best Luggage Locks''Best Laptops''Have you enjoyed the Best Packing Cubes for Travel? Leave a commment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Laptops for Travel''Top 10 Best Drones for Travel''Top 10 Best Sling Backpacks for Travel''The Best Travel Adapters''If you liked this, please share it:''Are you looking for a''great\xa0luggage lock''for travel? You have come to the right place? It’s very important that you take care of your belongings when traveling. Unfortunately, luggage theft is common all over the world. However, there are a few things we can do to protect our luggage.''If you are taking a flight, you should use a good luggage lock to prevent airport workers from opening your luggage. It’s important to remember that''TSA''(Transportation Security Administration) agents have the right to open a bag if they think it’s suspicious. In that case, they will cut your lock right off.''This procedure happens all the time, and it’s why TSA locks were created – to avoid the necessity of cutting your lock. If you use a TSA-approved lock, the agents will open your luggage with a master key, examine your belongings, and relock your backpack. Luckily, the best locks on the market are TSA-approved.''If you’re on a backpacking trip, your chances of “losing” something along the way increase dramatically. Hostels are fun and you get to meet a lot of great people; I always stay in hostels and 90 percent of the time I have a good time and feel really safe. However, from time to time we find some pilferers among backpackers.''Most hostels have lockers, but not all of them. Sometimes, you have to leave your backpack with your camera and your laptop in the room, just like that. That’s when luggage locks come in handy. They aren’t impossible to open; if somebody really wants to open a bag, he will. However, a backpack lock will be of great help. A thief doesn’t want to get into too much trouble, so if there are four backpacks in a dormitory, three of them locked and one not, which one do you think the thief will target?''Taking local buses can also increase your risk of getting your belongings stolen. I remember that time in Thailand when we all got our backpacks in the trunk of the bus and I realized that one had been stolen. Nothing really valuable, but it still wasn’t a good feeling. It appeared that one of the bus workers had gotten into the trunk while the bus was on the move and had taken his time to open the backpacks. And you know what? I had locked my backpack! Sometimes it’s almost impossible to avoid those situations, but we have to make it difficult for thieves by using''travel locks''.''Try to bring your most important belongings with you, though depending on the situation (for example, if you’re going out at night or visiting a not-so-safe area), it might be better to leave them at the hostel. By using a luggage lock, you’ll reduce the chances of your luggage getting stolen because most thieves will look for an easier, unlocked target.''There are hundreds of models out there and it’s not easy to make the right choice. But don’t worry! You don’t have to spend hours comparing models! I’ve done it for you. I’ve created a list of the best travel locks, so you can find the one that best fits your needs.''OUR LIST:''Masterlock Combination Cable''Lewis N Clark Cable''Lewis N Clark Key Card''Tarris Search Alert''Travelmore Alert Indicator''Forge 2 Pack''Masterlock TSA Key''Kolumbo 3 Digit''Tarris TSA Lock''Brinks 22mm''Check other buyer’s guides to find the''best passport holders'',''sling backpacks'',''travel adapters'', and''duffel bags''.''COMPARISON CHART:''TRAVEL LOCK''TYPE''TSA APPROVED''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''MASTERLOCK 4688D''COMBINATION''YES''$''4.6''LEWIS CLARK CABLE''COMBINATION''YES''$''4.7''LEWIS C. KEY CARD''KEY CARD''YES''$$''4.1''TARRIS ALERT''COMBINATION''YES''$$''4.6''TRAVELMORE ALERT''COMBINATION''YES''$''4.6''FORGE 2 PACK''COMBINATION''YES''$''4.7''MASTERLOCK KEY''KEY''YES''$$''4.5''KOLUMBO 3 DIGIT''COMBINATION''YES''$''4.3''TARRIS LOCK''COMBINATION''YES''$''4.7''BRINKS 22MM''KEY''YES''$''4.5''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE BUYING A BACKPACK LOCK''WHAT IS A TSA-APPROVED LOCK?''In the United States, the Transportation Security Administration is allowed to access and examine luggage without the passenger being present if the TSA thinks there might be any kind of risk or illegal transportation. They accept the fact that travelers will lock their luggage to avoid theft, but they recommend that you use TSA-approved locks only. This way, the authorities can open the lock, check your belongings and then relock your luggage. Otherwise, your luggage will be opened by force so that it can be inspected.''Locks using the TSA system are designed to meet the standards set by the Travel Sentry. When you see a lock with the Travel Sentry identifying mark, which is a red diamond, you’ll know that it’s approved by the TSA.''I recommend that you use this kind of lock if you fly regularly.''TYPES OF LOCKS''Key Lock''This is the traditional lock everybody knows. You have a physical key that opens the lock. The main advantage is that you don’t have to remember any combination. On the other hand, the keys tend to be tiny, so if you lose the key, you’ll need to get a saw or tongs to cut your travel lock. These locks usually come with a few keys in case you lose one.''Combination Lock''These locks are very popular among backpackers. They usually work with a three- or four-digit combination, which shouldn’t be too difficult to remember. Some “thieves” know how to crack the combination, but it usually takes a long time. As we’ve mentioned, no lock will be 100-percent safe. If someone really wants to open it, well… It’s not a strongbox, but the idea is to always keep your backpack locked.''Cable Lock''These locks use a flexible cable as a latching mechanism. Thanks to its flexibility, you can use it in more situations: in hostel dormitory lockers, for backpacks, suitcases, carry-on bags, etc. It’s one of the best options for backpackers looking for a versatile travel lock.''Retractable Cable Lock''The cable of this kind of lock can measure up to one meter. The main advantage is that you can lock together several backpacks, or lock your bag to a bar, or even lock a bike for a while (though I don’t recommended this if you really like the bike). On the downside, this lock is easier to break than regular locks. Not my favorite choice.''Key Card Lock''This type of travel lock doesn’t use a regular key to be opened. Rather, it uses a key card, like the ones you use in hotels. As in key locks, if you lose the card, you’ll have to cut your lock. The main advantage is that you can keep the card among your credit cards, so you shouldn’t lose it.''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 BEST BACKPACK LOCKS FOR TRAVEL''MASTERLOCK COMBINATION CABLE''Check price on Amazon''“Versatile and inexpensive”''The''Masterlock Combination 4688D''is one of the most popular options on the market. It’s a great, versatile lock that you can use to secure your luggage, bags, backpacks, computer bags and briefcases. It’s small but resistant and it features a flexible cable that will make it easier to use with zipper holes or other elements with unusual shapes. I also recommend it if you’re staying at hostels, as you can use it to keep everything secure inside your locker. It works with a three-number combination that you can set at your own convenience.''It’s a TSA-approved lock, so it’s also great for frequent flyers. You might think that it’s too small, but don’t worry; the cable is very resistant. Overall, it’s a fantastic lock. It’s lightweight, compact and inexpensive.''LEWIS N CLARK TSA TRIPLE SECURITY WITH CABLE''Check price on Amazon''“It includes a helpful cable”''The''Lewis N Clark''features a sturdy construction, an easy-to-set combination system and a useful steel cable. Thanks to its flexible 48-inch cable, you’ll be able to secure your luggage and backpack to a bar or any solid, safe place.''The cable is great because you can use it through zippers and handles or even lock several bags at the same time. I always travel with two backpacks – one for my clothes and another small one for my electronic gear. Being able to lock both bags at the same time is a great advantage. If you go to a hostel with no lockers, you can always lock your backpack to your bed.''It meets the TSA requirements in case you fly frequently.''LEWIS N CLARK KEY CARD''Check price on Amazon''“Open your lock with a key card”''The''Lewis N Clark Key Card''is a bit different. Instead of using a key or number combination, it opens with a key card. It’s the same system as the one you use to open hotel rooms. One of the advantages of this system is that you don’t have to remember any combination (even though it’s not that hard to remember three digits). I like the fact that you can keep the key card among other cards in your wallet. This way, you avoid carrying a tiny key that might get lost easily.''It’s durable and well-constructed and, overall, a good choice for any kind of travel.''TARRIS TSA LOCK SEARCH ALERT''Check price on Amazon''“For frequent flyers”''The''Tarris TSA Lock''is built with a search alert. If a TSA agent opens and examines your bag, the search alert will let you know that the bag has been inspected. The indicator changes from green to red when the lock has been opened by an agent. That’s why this locker is recommended mainly for frequent flyers. Of course, you can use it for other purposes, like when you’re backpacking, staying at hostels, etc.''It features a three-number combination and a flexible cable that you can easily thread through zipper holes and lockers.''TRAVELMORE ALERT INDICATOR''Check price on Amazon''“Resistant and compact”''The''Travelmore lock''features a high-resistance zinc body that provides maximum security. This lock is designed to be durable, lightweight and compact. It comes with an easy-to-set three-digit combination, a flexible cable to use with your backpack zippers and a search alert. If your luggage is inspected by TSA agents, the lock will let you know. There is a red indicator under the steel shackle that will illuminate if somebody opens it.''You can use it on a backpack, laptop bag, briefcase and many other items.''FORGE 2 PACK''Check price on Amazon''“Very tough locks”''The''Forge 2 Pack''includes two robust and resistant travel locks that meet TSA requirements. They can be used on a wide variety of bags and backpacks and come with a search alert that lets you know if your backpack has been inspected by TSA agents. The locks are durable and well-constructed, featuring special lock alloy bodies, steel shackles and solid internal mechanisms. These locks come with an unconditional lifetime guarantee. The manufacturer says that if you can break them, it will gladly replace them or offer a refund.''Many people use these locks and most of them have left very positive reviews.''MASTERLOCK TSA KEY''Check price on Amazon''“Amazing key lock”''The''Masterlock''is a simple, traditional model that works with a regular key. We’ve already reviewed a few combination models, and I know some people prefer this kind of traditional key lock. The shackle is quite small, so it’s definitely not as versatile as a cable lock, but I like the compact design of this great lock. The access keyway is placed on the front of the lock, which is very convenient when you want to open it at night. It’s much easier to find the opening and fit in the key.''If you aren’t a big fan of combination locks and are looking for a simple, solid model, this might be your best option.''KOLUMBO 3 DIGIT COMBINATION''Check price on Amazon''“Solid and durable”''The''Kolumbo''is another popular lock among travelers. One of the biggest advantages of this lock is that TSA agents can’t leave your backpack unlocked. It features a lock safe protection system, so every time your lock is opened and your bag inspected, the special TSA key gets blocked and can’t be removed until the lock is relocked. This way, you guarantee that your personal belonging will be safe after security inspections. The body is made of high-quality materials, meant to be resistant and durable. It’s one of the toughest locks on the list – a perfect companion for backpackers, hikers and all kinds of adventurers.''You can easily set your own combination in a few seconds. If you don’t like the lock or have any problems, there’s a great warranty, so you’ll have your lock replaced or your money refunded. It’s definitely one of the best backpack locks on the market.''TARRIS TSA LOCK''Check price on Amazon''“Great overall performance”''The''Tarris TSA lock''features a resistant flexible cable, a solid construction and an easy-to-set combination system. It’s pretty compact and lightweight and meets TSA requirements in case your luggage must be examined. It comes with two units in a pack and at a very affordable price. It’s a good option for those looking for the best performance on a budget.''BRINKS 22mm LOCK''Check price on Amazon''“Classic lock”''We’ve arrived at the end of the review. I wanted to include the''Brinks''lock for those who need a traditional lock that comes in a very convenient pack. This is the classic lock that everybody knows about. I like it because it’s tough, solid and durable, but at the same time meets TSA requirements, so you don’t need to worry if you’re a frequent flyer. For a very reasonable price, you get four locks to use on several bags, backpacks, lockers, etc.''It’s not as lightweight as other models, but it’s pretty compact. You get one key for each lock, but I like that you can open any of the locks in the pack with the same key. You don’t need to worry about finding the right key. All of them will work.''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''LUMINTRAIL CABLE''Check price on Amazon''“Awesome, resistant cable”''If you already have a good lock or you liked one of the locks on the list but want to get an additional\u2028cable, I suggest that you take a look at the''Lumintrail cable''. It’s a resistant steel cable with a \u2028double-looped system that you can use to secure your backpack, sports equipment, skateboard and \u2028other gear.''You can add strength and flexibility to your lock!''WHICH ARE THE BEST LOCKS FOR TRAVEL?''Your choice really depends on your preferences and your needs. If you still have doubts, let me help you with some suggestions. If you want a resistant combination lock, go with the''Lewis Clark Cable''. If you want to try the key card system, the''Lewis N Clark Key Card''has very good reviews.''On the other hand, if you want a classic key lock, the''Masterlock TSA key''might be your best bet.''TIPS FOR KEEPING ALL YOUR VALUABLES SAFE WHILE TRAVELING''– Always keep your most important belongings (money, credit cards, passports, etc.) with you while sleeping\u2028on a train or bus, visiting crowded places, etc. If you don’t feel confident about the place, try to keep your\u2028belongings in a money belt.''– Try to keep your camera, laptop and other electronic devices in the same backpack. Don’t place the \u2028backpack in the trunk of the taxi or bus. I keep an eye on my backpack at all times, placing it on my lap \u2028or between my feet. I usually wear one of the straps around one of my legs in case someone tries to steal \u2028it while I’m sleeping.''– If you’re visiting “dangerous” countries or neighborhoods, hide your money in your underwear or \u2028money belt, but keep $20 or $50 dollars in your pocket. Thieves like to get something, and if you give them \u2028something, they usually leave quickly. Unfortunately, I had to do this many times when I was living in \u2028Rio de Janeiro.''– Ask the locals before you go somewhere you heard was dangerous or if you don’t have a good feeling about \u2028the place.''– If you’re flying or taking a train, bus, etc., secure your luggage with a travel lock. If you’re staying at a\u2028backpacker’s hostel, place everything in the locker if possible.''– When you’re booking a hostel, take a look at the reviews. Be sure that the hostel has good feedback in \u2028terms of security and also that it has good lockers.''– You can get travel insurance to cover your valuables if they get stolen or damaged. There’s\u2028 special coverage available for electronic devices like phones, laptops and cameras.''– Don’t be paranoid! This is the most important tip. Be careful but don’t ruin your trip by being afraid of \u2028doing certain things because they might be dangerous or because something might get stolen. Enjoy!''Safe travels!''Other Travelers also liked:''Coffee Makers''Travel Laptops''Packing Cubes''Travel Drones''Have you enjoyed the Top 10 Locks for Travel? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Passport Holders''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel''Top 10 Best Sling Backpacks for Travel''Top 10 Best Laptops for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''Today, backpackers travel with a lot of electronic gear. That means you’ll be carrying a phone, a camera, maybe a laptop and probably a few more things, like portable speakers or an electronic razor. You’ll need to charge all those items from time to time, and might experience some problems when it comes to finding a compatible plug.''As you probably know, pretty much every region of''the world has different sockets''. Why is that? I’ll give a little explanation at the end of the article, but the fact is, it sucks. And it can be worse – in some countries, you can find several types of sockets! I can understand that Papua New Guinea and Brazil don’t have the same plugin, that’s alright! But different sockets in the same country? Well, that’s okay, too! I don’t want to complain! Let’s keep on the article!''Sometimes you can also experience problems with electric currents. For example, Europe uses an alternating current electricity voltage of 220V, while Japan uses 100V and the USA 120V. Some electronic devices would work just fine in other countries but you have to be careful. There are some exceptions depending on where you’re traveling and the type of electronic device you’re using.''Anyway, we’re not here to talk about problems, but rather to talk about solutions! I once used different simple adapters for my first travels, and I still have some of them. Fortunately, before I started my “big trip”, I decided to invest a bit and got a great international travel power adapter. When I say “invest”, please don’t think they’re expensive… They usually cost between 10 to 20 dollars, so it won’t be something that will break your bank.''Are you looking for the''best travel adapter''? If you’re planning a trip overseas, you’re going to need one. There are hundreds of models out there, and most of them look the same. However, there are some differences in terms of quality, weight, size and durability. Don’t worry, you don’t have to spend hours comparing models and reviews. I’ve done it for you! I’ve created a list of the best travel power adapters based on the reviews of real customers. Have a look and find the one that best fits your needs.''OUR LIST:''Loop Plug''Loop Charger''Travel Inspira''Skross''Kensington 3''Pors Ela''Insten Universal''VLG Adapter''Ceptics 12 Set''Bestek Converter''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the best''travel laptops'',''sling backpacks''and''drones''.''COMPARISON CHART OF THE BEST TRAVEL PLUG ADAPTERS''TRAVEL ADAPTER''TYPE''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''LOOP PLUG''ADAPTER''$''4.6''LOOP CHARGER''CHARGER''$$''4.2''TRAVEL INSPIRA''ADAPTER''$''4.0''SKROSS''ADAPTER''$$$''4.3''KENSINGTON 3''ADAPTER''$$$''4.5''PORS ELA''CHARGER''$$''4.5''INSTEN UNIVERSAL''ADAPTER''$''4.4''VLG ADAPTER''CHARGER''$$''4.6''CEPTICS 12 SET''COMPLETE SET''$''4.5''BESTEK CONVERTER''VOLTAGE CONVERTER''$$$''4.2''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE BUYING A TRAVEL POWER ADAPTER:''VOLTAGE CONVERTERS. DO I NEED ONE?''This is the most important thing you need to know about travel adapters: They’re not voltage converters! They basically adapt your plug to fit a different socket, so you can plug in your electronic device and get the electric current to make it work. But that doesn’t mean your device is necessarily prepared to use that voltage. You should check which voltage your electronic devices use and the current voltage at your destination.''Anyway, don’t worry too much, as most modern devices are dual voltage, which means they’d work fine with any of the indicated voltages.''Just check your electronic device’s voltage and be sure it’s compatible or dual voltage. Otherwise, you’re going to need a voltage converter.''INTERNATIONAL ADAPTER''Another important point: If you buy a travel adapter, I recommend that you get an international adapter. If you buy one suitable only for European plugs, you’ll need another one for Australia, South Africa, and so on. International travel adapters are great because they’re designed to provide different plug options all over the world (with a few exceptions) – all in the same compact item!''USB OPTION''When I got my first adapter, I didn’t even know what USB meant. However, nowadays, with all those phone cables, different chargers, etc., I think getting an adapter with a few USB entries (at least two) would be the most intelligent option. Actually, the best travel adapters are equipped with dual USB ports.''SIZE''There is a considerable difference in size if we compare regular adapters (suitable for just one type of plug) and international travel adapters (for all types of plugs). Of course, international adapters tend to be bigger and bulkier because they have a more complex design to work with several plug types. In any event, the difference is not huge.''If you need a voltage adapter, though, keep in mind that they are much bigger and heavier.''INSTRUCTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS''If you have any doubts about your electronic device, read the instructions to be sure about the voltage and other characteristics. If you aren’t sure about the quality of your device and your travel adapter, check if it has the proper certifications, like the CE for Europe, the FCC for the USA, the CSA for Canada, the RCM for Australia, etc.''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 BEST TRAVEL ADAPTERS''LOOP PLUG ADAPTER''Check price on Amazon''“Efficient and affordable”''The''Loop Plug''is one of the best travel international adapters on the list. It’s compact, well-designed, lightweight and functional. It will work in more than 150 countries in America, Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia, the Middle East, Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. (Check compatibility if you’re traveling to not-common destinations.) It’s the perfect companion for work travel, short holidays and backpacking adventures. It comes with two helpful USB ports to charge your Smartphone and iPad anywhere.''Thanks to its efficient design, you can charge as many as three devices simultaneously, all with the same adapter! It’s made of fire-resistant PC materials and has safety shutters, LEDs and a safety plug lock. It looks like the manufacturers are pretty proud of their product, as they provide an 18-month warranty.''Keep in mind that this adapter is meant to work with laptops, iPhones, iPads, etc. and might not be suitable for high-power devices like curling irons, hairdryers, etc. The maximum rating is 1400 watts 6.0 Amps 250 V. The USB output is 5 V DC at 2500 mAh maximum. Check out your devices before using any travel adapter.''Pros:''Great price, efficient''Cons:''None in particular''LOOP TRAVEL ADAPTER AND CHARGER''Check price on Amazon''“Charge your devices on the move”''The''Loop Charger''is another great choice for any kind of travel. It’s similar to the previous Loop model with the main advantage being that it can work as a charger. It’s one of the most featured adapters on the list, being a great adapter with an 11 pin AC socket, two USB ports and an internal power bank.''The built-in 3000 mAh power bank enables you to optimize recharging speeds and charge your technology on the move. When you’re charging several items at the same time, your devices might charge slowly. That’s when a power bank comes in handy.''Moreover, it’s great to charge your phone or iPad while traveling, right? Need to call your hotel while you’re on the bus and have no battery? The charger will be of great help in those situations.''It’s compatible with Apple, Samsung, Sony, Blackberry, Smartphones, tablets, etc. You can also charge three devices at the same time, like with the previous model. It comes with an 18-month warranty and has the most important certifications: FCC, CE and RoHS.\xa0It’s one of the best travel adapters you can find out there.''Pros:''Built-in charger''Cons:''A bit bulky''TRAVEL INSPIRA''Check price on Amazon''“Simple and efficient”''The''Travel Inspira''is another compact and affordable option. You can use it in more than 150 countries in North America, Europe, the UK, Oceania and many more. It’s not the smallest on the list, but it fits in your pocket easily and it’s pretty lightweight. To be honest, there are a lot of models of pretty much the same size and weight. If they are also chargers and converters, they will be heavier and much bigger.''It features dual USB ports to charge your iPad, phone and other small devices. It’s built using the best components and it includes safety shutters to be durable, efficient and secure.''Pros:''Affordable''Cons:''None in particular''SKROSS''Check price on Amazon''“Functional for Europe”''The''Skross''offers several plug options depending on your preferences and needs. It has a functional design, so you can disassemble one of the pieces and use it without the body. It’s a great option if you are traveling to Europe, as the head piece converts to the European plug. One of the main downsides of this model is that the dual USB ports are not built in the same body. There is another piece with the USB connections, so you can’t use the plug and the USB ports at the same time.''It’s a good model with a versatile design, and even though it’s made in Thailand, the original design is Swiss. Still, I think it’s a bit overpriced, and I don’t like the idea of bringing along different pieces to connect the USB devices.''Pros:''Several options''Cons:''Expensive, USB separated''KENSINGTON 3 PRONG''Check price on Amazon''“Great performance”''The''Kensington 3 Prong''is a well-built option that works in more than 200 countries. You can power your laptop or camera and charge two USB devices at the same time. It’s easy to use and compact.''I think it’s a nice option for any kind of traveler. It’s safe and efficient.''Pros:''Fast USB, safety''Cons:''It’s not cheap''PORS ELA INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL ADAPTER''Check price on Amazon''“Adapter and charger”''The''Pors Ela travel adapter''allows you to power your electronic devices all over the world. It’s a very safe device, which includes a fuse system integrated with a durable polycarbonate shell and protection layers. It’s FCC, CE and RoHS certified, providing complete protection. It has an intelligent design to optimize internal space and functionality. It’s also available in two colors.''As with most adapters on the list, it’s not suitable for use with high-power appliances like hairdryers, curling irons, water heaters, etc. The maximum rating is 660 watts at 250 V and 1380 watts at 230V.''Pros:''Good design''Cons:''None in particular''INSTEN UNIVERSAL ADAPTER''Check price on Amazon''“Best budget option”''The''Insten universal charger''is the best option for those looking for something simple, functional and cheap. It works in more than 150 countries, like pretty much all the adapters on the list. The main difference from the others is the basic design. The construction of the body is quite simple and the design doesn’t look as attractive. Regardless, this was the first travel adapter that I bought more than seven years ago and it still works like a charm. I totally recommend it.''I think it’s a great option for backpackers on a budget. If you think it’s too simple, you’d like to know that there’s a''black version''which is just a bit more expensive (a few dollars), and that offers a much more beautiful design and USB ports – probably the best value for the money.''Pros:''Price''Cons:''Not so attractive''VLG ADAPTER AND CHARGER''Check price on Amazon''“Best travel charger”''The''VLG''might be the best travel adapter and charger on the list. I like this model because it’s super compact and lightweight, and you can charge your devices while traveling. Power all your electronic gear on the move! You can use the main plug and the two USB ports at the same time. Of course, it works in more than 150 countries, including the USA, Canada, Japan, the UK, Europe, the Middle East, South America, Asia, South Africa, etc.''You can find it in eight bright colors depending on your preferences!''Pros:''Compact, charger''Cons:''None in particular''CEPTICS GP-12PK SET''Check price on Amazon''“It works everywhere”''As you’ve noticed, all travel adapters on the list work in more than 150 countries. Unfortunately, that’s not every country in the world. If you’re traveling somewhere with a very specific and small common plug, you might need a special adapter. For example, Israel uses Type H. That type of plug is used exclusively in Israel, so most adapters are not compatible. You might find the same problem in other countries. If that’s your case, I recommend that you get the''Ceptics GP-12PK'', which is compatible with all plug types except large South African plugs.''Actually, it’s not a travel adapter, but a complete set with the different types of plugs.''Pros: Many options, affordable''Cons: Bulky''BESTEK TRAVEL ADAPTER AND VOLTAGE CONVERTER''Check price on Amazon''“One of the best voltage converters”''We’ve reviewed nine great travel adapters. However, they don’t convert voltage. If you want to use some electronic devices in another country and they aren’t dual voltage, you’ll need a good voltage converter. The''Bestek adapter''converts all countries’ voltages from 90-220V to 110-120V, which is the voltage used in the US. You’ll find one EU power cable, three plug international adapters and four USB charging ports. It charges seven devices simultaneously.''The Bestek is compact and well-designed. Of course, it’s bigger than regular travel adapters but it’s still a reasonable size.''Pros:''Converts voltage''Cons:''Big''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''SYNCWIRE USB CHARGER''Check price on Amazon''I wanted to include the''Syncwire Charger''on the list because some people might need extra\xa0USB ports for some\xa0always charged. It doesn’t have so many possibilities and adapters, but it will work\xa0in the USA, the UK, Europe and other countries. It comes with four full-speed charging\xa0USB ports.''WHICH ARE THE BEST TRAVEL ADAPTERS?''Do you still have doubts? Don’t worry, let me help you. If you’re looking for a high-quality, efficient adapter, I recommend that you get the''Loop adapter''.\xa0If you want a travel charger, I’d go with the''VLG''because it’s compact and it works well.''If you’re on a budget and want something affordable but well-designed, I recommend that you take a look at the''Insten Black''.''TYPES OF PLUGS''Do you know how many types of plugs are out there? Fourteen! Isn’t that crazy? Some of them are very popular and spread around half the world, while others are not so common.''TYPE A''This is a very common plug, used in the USA, Canada, Central America, Japan and other countries. This plug is an ungrounded plug with two flat parallel pins. It’s used in many countries, so all the adapters in the list will work with Type A plugs.''TYPE B''This plug is used in North and Central America, Japan and other countries. It has two parallel pins and a round grounding (on earth) pin. It’s used in many countries, so all the travel adapters in the list include a Type B plug.''TYPE C''This plug is used in Europe with a few exceptions, like Ireland, Cyprus and Malta. It’s a two-wire plug that has two round pins. It’s a very popular plug all over the world. The best travel adapters in the list will work with Type C plugs.''TYPE D''Type D plugs are very common in India, Nepal, Namibia, Ghana, Sri Lanka and other countries. It has three large round pins in a triangular pattern. Keep in mind that not all adapters are compatible with this type because it’s not very common.''TYPE E''This plug is used in some European and African countries. It features two round pins and a hole for the socket’s earthing pin. It’s not that common on travel electronic devices, so not all travel adapters are compatible.''TYPE F''Type F plugs are used in some countries in Europe and the Middle East. They’re very similar to Type E without the hole.''TYPE G''This type is used in the UK, Ireland, Cyprus, Malta, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia and more. It features three rectangular prongs in a triangular pattern. It’s a common type, so all travel adapters on the list will work with Type G.''TYPE H''This plug is used only in Israel! It has three flat blades – two in a V shape as well as a grounding pin. It’s not common, so most international travel adapters are not compatible.''TYPE I''The Type I plug is used mainly in Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Argentina, Uruguay and many islands in the Pacific Ocean. It features two flat pins in a V shape and a grounding pin. It’s compatible with the best adapters on the list.''TYPE J''This plug is used in Lichtenstein, Switzerland, Jordan, Madagascar, Maldives and Rwanda. It has three round pins in a triangle pattern. Most adapters on the list are not compatible with this type of plug.''TYPE K''Type K plugs are used in Denmark, Bangladesh, Greenland, Guinea, Madagascar, the Maldives, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Senegal. It has two round prongs and a grounding pin. Most universal adapters don’t work with this type.''TYPE L''This plug is used in Chile, Italy, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Libya, the Maldives, San Marino, Syria and Uruguay. It has three round pins in a row. It’s not very common, so it’s not compatible with most international adapters.''TYPE M''Type M plugs are used in India, South Africa, Swaziland, Pakistan, Botswana and a few more countries. They have three round prongs in a triangle pattern.''TYPE N''Type N is used only in Brazil and South Africa. It has three round pins in a triangle shape and isn’t very common.''IS MY DEVICE DUAL VOLTAGE?''As we mentioned before, you must know whether your electronic device is dual voltage. If it’s not dual voltage and you’re traveling to a country using a different voltage, you’ll need to get a voltage converter. Let me tell you how you can determine whether it’s dual voltage.''A dual voltage device typically accepts both 110-120V and 220-240V. Fortunately, most travel gadgets are dual voltage. Many popular devices among backpackers, like laptops, Smartphones, cameras, electronic razors, etc., are dual voltage. You need just one of the travel adapters we’ve reviewed and your device will be powered up almost anywhere in the world.''Before you travel, check all your devices so you know that you’re bringing the right gear. Have a look at your laptop’s charger, for example. Somewhere you see INPUT: 100 – 240 V. Right? That’s dual voltage. It means the device can work with either a 100 V current or a 240 V current. So, if you’re going to Japan (100 V) or Europe (220 V), you’ll be fine. You can also find other specifications, like 110 ~ 220 V AC, etc. Some dual voltage devices have settings that require you to switch them to the right voltage before you turn them on. However, this is not common nowadays, as most dual voltage devices adjust automatically.''If you read something on the power label that looks like a simple 100V AC or maybe 120V AC, that’s not good! It’s a single voltage device. In that case, you’ll need a voltage converter. I recommend the''Bestek converter''to adapt your devices to international travel.''WHY DOES EVERY REGION HAVE A DIFFERENT PLUG AND VOLTAGE?''We must go back in time to fully understand this problem. Edison and Tesla were competing to implement the best use of current electricity power. Edison’s experiments around 1890 resulted in the first useful mainstream applications for electricity. However, some voltage was lost over long distances. Tesla invented a more efficient system with alternating current power which resulted in today’s 110 V, the voltage used in the United States.''In Europe, they thought about doing things in a different way, so Germany fixed the voltage to 240 V and a 50 Hz frequency. All that was before electricity would have arrived in private homes.''When current electricity power arrived in private homes, the main use was for lightning the house. A few years later, new electronic machines and devices were invented and people started using them. But how would they plug these devices to the main supply of electricity? You don’t want to know! It was very precarious and dangerous, and some people were electrocuted!''In the United States, Harvey Hubbell invented an adapter to plug electronic devices into the current power. It was around 1928 when the design of those sockets was improved. But think about it! By the time the socket was invented, there was already that mess with different voltages!''At the same time, inventors in other countries invented other sockets! Nobody worried about compatibility back in those days. The world wasn’t globalized like it is today, and nobody would carry a fridge from one continent to another.''After that, with so many colonies around Asia, Africa and the Americas (mainly English, French and Spanish), it took just a few years to spread different models to different colonies, creating the mess of plugs and adapters we know today!''One unified standard voltage and plug for every country in the world? Even though some countries like Brazil and South Africa have adapted to the universal plug, it would now be very difficult to convince every country to change all their systems. I’m afraid that standardization is not going to happen soon!''Other Travelers also liked:''Best Duffel Bags''Best Luggage Locks''Passport Holders''Best Packing Cubes''Travel coffee makers''Have you enjoyed the Best Travel Adapters? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Travel Duffel Bags Review''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel''Top 10 Best Sling Backpacks for Travel''Top 10 Best Laptops for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''Backpacking can sometimes be exhausting – always carrying a heavy backpack, walking for hours, camping, wandering cities, hiking, scuba diving… Then, at the end of the day, when you just want to go to sleep or get into your sleeping bag, you realize you don’t have a good pillow, or you don’t have a pillow at all. Some backpackers and hikers fill a sack with dirty clothes and use it like a pillow. It’s okay; I’ve done it many times and it works.''However, if you are looking for a proper rest, especially if you’ve been traveling for a long time, a good pillow will be very welcome, believe me! You need something light, durable and comfortable. That’s when''backpacking pillows''come in handy.''One thing I love about backpacking pillows is their versatility; you can use them for air travel, hiking, winter expeditions, etc. As you probably know, this blog is all about adventure. That means a lot of outdoor sports, especially''hiking''. When you go hiking, you need a good rest so you can continue your trek with energy the next day, right? Some''sleeping pads''feature a pillow but most of the time it’s just too small. If you use a backpacking pillow, you’ll get a better sleep and you won’t wake up with torticollis. I like to use a''hiking pillow''over my pad; then I get into my''sleeping bag''and that’s all I need to sleep like a baby.''Some people don’t like camping pillows or aren’t used to them, but they probably haven’t tested today’s models. Technology has also advanced in this market, creating efficient and comfortable backpacking pillows. Forget about those old inflatable pieces of plastic. The''best backpacking pillows''feature anatomic shapes, new materials, packability options and more. Moreover, most brands have worked very hard to create ultralight, resistant materials that withstand hard conditions.''I know, there are hundreds of models out there and it’s difficult to make the right choice. But don’t worry! You don’t have to spend hours comparing models and reviews. I’ve done it for you! Just like that. I’ve created a list based on the reviews of real customers so you can find exactly what you’re looking for and trust the product.''OUR LIST:''Sea to Summit Aeros''Exped Air UL''Instant Camp''Nemo Fillo''Exped Rem''Big Agnes''Therm A Rest''Sierra Designs''Teton Sports''Therm A Rest Lumbar''Check out other buyer’s guides to find the''best hiking backpacks'',''GPS'',''hammocks''and''tents''.''COMPARISON CHART:''BACKPACKING PILLOW''TYPE''WEIGHT''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''SEA TO SUMMIT AEROS''Air''2.8 oz''$$''4.8''EXPED UL AIR''Air''1.9 oz''$$''4.3''INSTANT CAMP''Air''2.4 oz''$''4.6''NEMO FILLO''Hybrid''9.0 oz''$$''4.7''EXPED REM''Hybrid''8.8 oz''$$''4.6''BIG AGNES''Hybrid''7.0 oz''$''4.6''THERM A REST''Compressible''9.0 oz (M)''$$$''4.7''SIERRA DESIGNS''Compressible''5.8 oz''$''4.1''TETON SPORTS''Compressible''12.8 oz''$''4.0''THERM LUMBAR''Compressible''4.0 oz''$''4.5''TYPES OF CAMPING PILLOWS''As you can imagine, there are many types of backpacking pillows depending on the purpose, shape and materials. However, most of the time we can classify them into''compressible, inflatable and hybrid pillows.''Compressible Pillows''This kind of pillow is typically filled with foam, down, fibers or synthetic mixtures. It is usually the most comfortable and softest option; it’s pretty much like sleeping on the pillow you use at home. Those with down tend to be lighter and more expensive.''On the downside, this type of backpacking pillow is heavier than an inflatable pillow and takes up more space. It’s more difficult to clean because dirt and dust can get inside the pillow. Personally, I recommend this type of pillow only for camping, never for backpacking and hiking. It takes up too much space!''Inflatable Pillows''Inflatable pillows are one of the best options for backpackers because they are ultralight, compact, packable, easy to clean and affordable. These pillows are filled with air, so you can adjust the pillow’s thickness the way you want. You can pack a light pillow in your backpack and you won’t notice any extra weight. This is the favorite choice for hikers and outdoor lovers, too.''On the downside, they can be noisier and are usually less comfortable.''Hybrid Pillows''As the name suggests, these pillows are a combination of the last two types. They usually have a compressible and comfortable part while the rest is inflatable. This is another interesting option for backpackers, though you must be careful not to choose a bulky model.''TRAVEL PILLOWS vs BACKPACKING PILLOWS''The main differences between travel pillows and backpacking pillows are the shape and the use. Travel pillows are great for long flights, bus rides, etc. They typically have an ergonomic “U” shape that curls around your neck. They are the best option for sleeping while sitting, like on a plain or train. The best models tend to be compressible.''Backpacking pillows are designed to be ultralight and packable. The main difference is that they have a traditional rectangular shape, like any regular pillow. This way, you can use them to sleep horizontally, like when you’re sleeping in a''hammock'', in a camping tent, etc. The purpose of this kind of pillow is to be like the pillow you have at home, but portable.''ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF BACKPACKING PILLOWS''ADVANTAGES''Lightweight''More compact''Packable''Easy to clean''Versatile''DISADVANTAGES''Not so comfortable to sleep while sitting''A FEW THINGS TO CONSIDER BEFORE BUYING A BACKPACKING PILLOW:''INFLATION''Most models require nothing but a deep breath (sometimes a few breaths) to completely inflate. These are manual models. They are lightweight and pack very small. On the downside, inflating with your breath can introduce bacteria and moisture inside the pillow. This is usually difficult or impossible to clean.''Self-inflating pillows''are equipped with a valve that inflates the pillow in just a few seconds. Due to this inflating mechanism, these pillows tend to be a bit heavier and bulkier. One of the advantages is that they don’t get any breath inside them and, therefore, they don’t get any fungus or bacteria.''I prefer''manual models''because they are lighter and still very easy and quick to inflate. I wouldn’t worry much about bacteria inside your pillow. Thousands of bacteria are all around us anyway. Once you close the seal, they’ll remain inside and won’t bother you.''MATERIALS''As we said before, compressible pillows may be filled with foam, down and fibers, while having a synthetic exterior cover. Inflatable pillows are usually made of brushed polyester or nylon. These materials are soft, comfortable and hygienic. Most of the time, you can wash the whole pillow, not just the cover.''WEIGHT''This is one of the key aspects in choosing the right backpacking pillow. I’d always recommend that you keep your backpack as light as you can. However, some people prefer a heavy and bulky pillow to guarantee good sleep. It really depends on the kind of travel you are about to undertake.''COMFORT''This is a very personal aspect. What’s comfortable for you might not be that comfortable for your friend, right? Think about what position is more comfortable for you. What is your favorite position in which to sleep? Are you going to use your pillow mainly for backpacking, hiking, camping, etc.? Do you want to use it for long airplane trips? Some models are designed for side sleepers, while others are more comfortable for back sleepers.''If you choose a travel pillow with a “U” shape that curls around your neck, keep in mind that they aren’t so comfortable for camping.''SPACE''For long-term travelers, it would be kind of like suicide to buy a bulky pillow. Where will you keep it when it’s not in use? You don’t want to carry bulky stuff. If you’re a backpacker, you need a compact, lightweight pillow. You can pack it inside your backpack and forget about it until the next time you need it.''USE''The use of the pillow and purpose of your travel will define the kind of pillow you need. Do you require it for long-haul flights, camping trips, short backpacking trips or long-term trips? We’ve already seen the main differences, so I’m pretty sure you know what you’re looking for.''REVIEW OF THE BEST PILLOWS FOR BACKPACKING. INFLATABLES''SEA TO SUMMIT AEROS''Check price on Amazon''“Great comfort at minimal weight”''The''Sea to Summit Aeros''is one of the most popular pillows among outdoor lovers. Why? Because it packs really small and it’s ultralight and super comfortable. Some plastic pillows can be uncomfortable to use, keeping you awake with a sweaty face, right? You won’t find that problem with this model; the lined polyester knit fabric on the cover feels soft, providing a nice sleep. Moreover, there’s a special fill between the pillow cover and the bladder that increases comfort and decreases perspiration.''The ergonomic curvature will help you keep your head on the center of the pillow. Another great advantage is that you can find it in several sizes depending on your preference. We know that small pillows can sometimes be uncomfortable. You can get the large size to enjoy a better sleep.''It’s very easy to inflate with a couple of breaths, thanks to its multi-functional valve.''Pros:''Packs small, lightweight''Cons:''Not the most comfortable but quite good''Recommended for:''Long-term trips, backpacking, camping, hiking''EXPED UL AIR''Check price on Amazon''“The lightest on the list”''The''Exped UL Air''might be one of the best backpacking pillows in terms of weight and space. It’s the lightest on the list and it also packs to the smallest volume. While this is a big advantage, you’ll find that it’s not very comfortable as compared to the other models. It’s easy to use, has good support and is super portable, though the polyester cover doesn’t feel very comfortable or soft against the face. Another downside: It’s one of the most expensive options on the list.''I’m not saying it’s not a good pillow, but I think the Sea to Summit offers more comfort while being just a bit heavier and bulkier.''Pros:''Ultralight, packs very small''Cons:''Not comfortable''Recommended for:''Ultralight backpacking''INSTANT CAMP''Check price on Amazon''“Ultralight backpacking pillow”''The''Instant Camp''is a budget option for those looking for a lightweight backpacking pillow. It’s one of the lightest pillows on the market and it packs ridiculously small. It provides decent support, holding your head and offering good overall stability. However, I’ll be honest: I don’t like the feel of the nylon on my face. It’s far less comfortable than other pillows. I guess you could solve that problem by using a shirt to cover the pillow, but I think there are better options if you’re willing to spend just a few more dollars.''It’s a budget, super compact pillow for ultralight backpackers and hikers.''Pros:''Lightweight, packs really small''Cons:''Uncomfortable''Recommended for:''Ultralight backpacking and hiking''PILLOWS FOR BACKPACKING, CAMPING AND HIKING. HYBRIDS''NEMO FILLO''Check price on Amazon''“Comfort and versatility”''The''Nemo Fillo''is considered one of the best backpacking pillows by many happy customers. It has a regular rectangular shape and provides excellent comfort and versatility. It’s adjustable to all kind of sleep preferences, both on a surface or while sitting. You can easily control how much air you’re putting inside, and thus adjust the thickness just the way you like. It features an inch of foam combined with a three-inch bladder to provide extra comfort for back and side sleepers.''The Nemo Fillo packs pretty small, especially for a hybrid pillow. It’s not the lightest on the list and that’s why I wouldn’t recommend it for long-term travel. However, I think it’s perfect for weekend getaways, car camping and short backpacking trips. The stuff sack is built into the design of the pillow, which is great for backpacking trips. You don’t have to worry about losing it.''Despite its small packed size, it provides a large surface area for your head, being one of the most comfortable backpacking pillows on the list.''Pros:''Super comfy''Cons:''A bit heavy''Recommended for:''Short trips, camping''EXPED REM''Check price on Amazon''“Lightweight hybrid pillow”''The''Exped Rem''is another amazing hybrid pillow. This model features a great valve system that makes inflating and deflating very easy and quick. If you’re looking for a thick pillow, you’d like to know that the Exped Rem is the thickest on the list, even though it’s not the most comfortable one.''If we compare it with the Nemo Fillo, we see some differences; the Exped Rem provides good comfort at a lower weight, but packs considerably bigger.''On the other hand, the Nemo Fillo is more comfortable because of the memory foam, but it’s heavier.\xa0Personally, I’d recommend the Nemo Fillo because it’s more comfortable and packs smaller.''Pros:''Lightweight for a hybrid''Cons:''Bulky, noisy''Recommended for:''Short trips, camping''BIG AGNES GIANT MEMORY FOAM''Check price on Amazon''“Good value for the money”''The''Big Agnes Giant Memory Foam''is the last hybrid pillow on the list. I wanted to include it because even though it’s heavier than other models, it has a fantastic price and a very good overall performance. It has a big air core, plus a layer of memory foam on top. It feels very solid, comfortable and soft against the skin, while the memory foam adapts to the curves of your head, providing a great rest for side, stomach and back sleepers.''The inflatable insert can be removed if you want to save some weight. Then you could use it only with the memory foam, or place one of your jackets or some of your other clothes inside. A great option for campers on a budget!''Pros:''Super comfortable''Cons:''Heavy, bulky''Recommended for:''Camping, short trips''PILLOWS FOR BACPACKING AND CAMPING. COMPRESSIBLE''THERM A REST COMPRESSIBLE''Check price on Amazon''“The most popular compressible pillow”''The''Therm A Rest Compressible''is one of the best rated and most popular pillows on the market. It’s not the lightest on the list and it’s not inflatable, so it doesn’t pack small. So why is it so popular? Because it has a great price and it’s super comfortable. It’s a compressible pillow with a soft polyester cover on the outside and soft urethane foam inside that offers more loft and weight distribution than any other compressible pillow. It feels like one of the pillows you might have in your bedroom.''It’s easy to use and simple, and you’re going to like that the stuff sack is built into the design of the pillow, so you won’t worry about losing it. There are four sizes to choose from, so I’m pretty sure you’ll find the one that best fits your needs. The XL measures a generous 16.5 x 27 inches. Not bad, huh?''This classic pillow is perfect for camping or car trips. On the other hand, I’d never recommend it for hiking and backpacking trips because it takes up too much space in your backpack.''Pros:''Price, comfort''Cons:''Heavy, bulky''Recommended for:''Camping''SIERRA DESIGNS DRIDOWN''Check price on Amazon''“Soft compressible pillow”''The''Sierra Designs Dridown''is an extra-soft compressible pillow for camping and outdoor adventures. The cover of the pillow is made of 30D durable polyester, while the insert is filled with 600 dridown. You can remove the synthetic fill insert and leave it at home if you want to save weight, and then fill the cover with a jacket or a few shirts (though I don’t recommend it). It’s a soft pillow that provides a good rest for back, stomach and side sleepers.''The pillow feels soft against your face, but it might lose a bit of support overnight. Some people who reviewed it said that it becomes a bit warm a few minutes after use. Overall, it’s a great, versatile pillow for campers.''Pros:''Softness, comfort''Cons:''Little support''Recommended for:''Camping''TETON SPORTS''Check price on Amazon''“Budget pillow”''The''Teton Sports Pillow''is one of the most affordable options on the list. It has a simple and easy-to-use design at a great price. It’s comfortable, solid and soft, and provides good support. Actually, it looks like the pillows we all have at home. The cover is made of extra-soft brushed flannel and it comes with a limited lifetime warranty and great customer service. Of course, it has its downsides; it’s not lightweight and it doesn’t pack small.''It’s a good option for those looking for an inexpensive pillow for car camping and other outdoor sports in which you don’t have to walk too far before you pitch your tent.''Pros:''Softness, comfort''Cons:''Heavy, bulky''Recommended for:''Camping''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT LIKE:''J PILLOW''Check price on Amazon''“Best pillow for long flights”''The''J pillow''is one of the most popular choices for long-haul flights, bus rides, etc. I wanted to include it on the list because some travelers have serious problems sleeping when they take any kind of transport and this type of pillow could certainly help. It’s designed to wrap slightly around your neck, but the main purpose is to hold your chin and your head, preventing neck and back problems. You can also use it at home on the couch, or while reading in bed.\xa0You can wash the whole pillow – not just the cover –\xa0 in the washing machine.''THERM A REST LUMBAR''Check price on Amazon''“Comfort for the lumbar”''The''Therm A Rest Lumbar''is a great solution for those experiencing back problems and having to face a long flight or ride. It’s adjustable, super comfortable and easy to use. The pillow self-inflates in about one minute and then you can adjust the amount of air as you like. Some people also use it when driving as extra help for the lumbar area.''WHICH ARE THE BEST PILLOWS FOR CAMPING AND HIKING?''Do you still have doubts? Let me give you a few suggestions!''If you’re looking for a lightweight, packable pillow for general backpacking and some camping or hiking, I would definitely go with the''Sea to Summit Aeros''.''On the other hand, if you need something comfortable and solid for your camping adventures, regardless of the weight and size, the''Nemo Fillo''and the''Therm A Rest Compressible''might be your best options.''Other Adventurers liked:''Hiking Pants''Hiking Sandals''Filtered Bottles''Backpacking Cameras''Have you enjoyed the Best Backpacking Pillows for Camping and Hiking? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best Backpacking Gear List: Stuff I like''Tactical Watches for Military Use Review''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''Top 11 Best Lightweight Sleeping Bags for Travel, ...''If you liked this, please share it:''Whether you are backpacking through South America, hiking the''Appalachian Trail''or bike touring in Utah, carrying a good sleeping bag is key to guaranteeing a well-deserved sleep.''At the same time, we don’t want to bring along one of those big and heavy old sleeping bags. Nowadays, most brands have developed new technologies to produce lightweight and compact sleeping bags, providing great comfort at very low temperatures.''If you are looking for the''Best Ultralight\xa0Sleeping Bag'', you have come to the right place!''Check out''other gear reviews to find the''best hammocks'',''sleeping pads'',''camping pillows'', and''tents\xa0for hiking''!''Comparison Chart:''Ultralight Sleeping Bag''Comfort Temperature''Weight''Price''Editor Rating''Marmot Plasma 15''15 F / - 9 C''1.8 lbs''$$$$''4.6''WM Alpinlite 20''20 F / - 7 C''1.9 lb''$$$$''4.9''Marmot Helium 15''15 F / - 9 C''2.0 lbs''$$$$''5.0''MHPhantom 28''32 F / 0 C''1.4 lb''$$$''4.5''WM Summerlite 32''32 F / 0 C''1.2 lb''$$$''5.0''Big Agnes Pitchpine UL45''45 F / 7 C''1.3 lb''$$$''4.2''Sea to Summit Spark SP II''44 F / 7 C''1.0 lb''$$$''5.0''Sierra Designs Backcountry''28 F / -2 C''3.0 lbs''$$''4.9''Hyke & Byke Mummy''32 F / 0 C''1.9 lbs''$$''4.7''Outdoor Vitals 20''20 F / -7 C''2.7 lbs''$$''4.8''Camtoa''59 F / 15 C''1.7 lb''$''4.1''I know, there are many\xa0different brands out there and it’s difficult to make a choice. I hope this ultimate buying guide will help you make the right decission.''A few things to consider before buying a Sleeping Bag:''Sleeping Bag or Quilt?''Quilts''usually have compressed down insulation on the underside, being that the contact with your sleeping pad is what keeps you warm. This fact makes them lighter and sometimes cheaper as fewer feathers are used to build the quilt. Most quilts don’t have a hood either, which might be okay\xa0in the summer, but not that great during a cold winter.''Sleeping bags''surround your entire body, having the same amount of down insulation all over the bag. They usually have a hood to make you feel warmer and cozier.''Personally,''I prefer a sleeping bag''as I get\xa0a better sleep.''Down or Synthetic''Down sleeping bags''tend to be more compressible and have a longer lifetime. A good down sleeping bag can last you for more than 15 years, while synthetic ones won’t resist more than 7 years at most.''Synthetic bags''are usually cheaper and more resistant to wet climates. However, most down models are now made with water-resistant materials and include a waterproof stuff sack, so they are also well-adapted to wet weather.''If you want to get a durable and high-quality sleeping bag,''I’d choose down''without a doubt.''Cost''Sleeping bags aren’t exactly cheap. A sleeping bag is a very important piece of gear when you are out there, and even though you might spend a little more than you planned, you’ll be glad to have the warm sleep. Nevertheless, there are some affordable options from as little as $100 depending on the conditions you will face.''Weight''This is a very important factor I took into consideration when recommending the best models. Sleeping bags can sometimes be heavy and bulky. Heavy models might be fine for a short hike, but not so great for a multi-day expedition. I’ve tried to put together a good selection of very lightweight sleeping bags.''Which temperature rating is right for me?''This is probably the most difficult part of choosing the right sleeping bag. Some people are cold-natured and others hot-natured, so it will depend on the person and, of course, on the temperature of the place where you are going to hike.''In general terms,''I’d recommend:''Above 45° F''for spring-summer trips.''30-44° F''for autumn chill hikes.''Under 30° F''for winter cold hikes.''Top 11 Ultralight Sleeping Bags for Travel and Hiking. Review''Top-End''MARMOT PLASMA 15''The''Marmot Plasma 15''is an ultralight sleeping bag with one of the best warmth-to-weight ratios. The shell is treated with durable water repellent for maximum protection in wet climates. It’s a great option for cold hiking trips.''TYPE:''900 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''15 F / – 9 C''WEIGHT:''1.8 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''7.5 x 15 inches''“Maximum warmth at minimum weight”''Check price on Amazon''WESTERN MOUNTAINEERING ALPINLITE 20''The''Western Mountaineering Ultralite 20''is a comfortable and roomy sleeping bag. It’ s perfect if you are going to travel through different climates, even though it might be too warm for mid-summer.''TYPE:''Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''20 F / – 7 C''WEIGHT:''1.9 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''8 x 15 inches''“Versatile and ultralight”''Check price on Amazon''MARMOT HELIUM 15''The''Marmot Helium 15''is a warm and comfortable sleeping bag featuring a water-resistant treatment, internal stash pockets and a fold-down second zipper to provide added ventilation. It’s a bit heavier than the Marmot Plasma, but also more affordable.''TYPE:''800 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''15 F / – 9 C''WEIGHT:''2.0 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''7 x 14 inches''“Withstands freezing nights”''Check price on Amazon''MOUNTAIN HARDWEAR PHANTOM 28''The''Mountain Hardwear Phantom 28''is another lightweitght and comfortable sleeping bag with great performance. It’s not as warm as the previous models, but it’s lighter.''TYPE:''800 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''28 F / -2 C''WEIGHT:''1.5 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''6 x 10 inches''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''WESTERN MOUNTAINEERING SUMMERLITE 32''The''Western Mountaineering Summerlite 32''is one of the lightest bags with a continuous baffle construction. Like all Western Mountaineering bags, it is made in the U.S.A, which is a quality guarantee.''TYPE:''Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''32 F / 0 C''WEIGHT:''1.2 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''6 x 12 inches''“Ultralight 3-season sleeping bag”''Check price on Amazon''Lightweight Sleeping Bags: Mid-Range''BIG AGNES PITCHPINE UL 45''The''Big Agnes Pitchpine UL45''is a great sleeping bag for hikers and backpackers traveling during the autumn, spring and summer. Just keep in mind that it might be too cold for high mountain expeditons or hard winters.''TYPE:''850 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''45 F / 7 C''WEIGHT:''1.3 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''7.5 x 15 inches''“Great for spring, too cold in winter”''Check price on Amazon''SEA TO SUMMIT SPARK SP II''The''Sea to Summit Spark SPII''is another lightweight sleeping bag for slightly cool to warm climates. Keep in mind that 35 F is the lower temperature limit and not the comfort zone, which is 44 F.''TYPE:''850 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''44 F / 7 C''WEIGHT:''1.0 lb''“Good option for backpackers”''Check price on Amazon''SIERRA DESIGNS BACKCOUNTRY BED''The''Sierra Designs Backcountry''Bed is one of the most versatile, comfortable and roomy sleeping bags in the list. It’s free of hardware like zippers and Velcro, and is fully adjustable depending on the temperature. It’s also adaptable to your favorite sleeping position.''TYPE:''600 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''28 F / -2 C''WEIGHT:''3.0 lbs''“Smart design and great price”''Check price on Amazon''Budget''HYKE & BYKE ULTRALIGHT MUMMY''The''Hyke & Byke Ultralight Mummy''is a good option for backpackers who don’t want to break the bank. It’s not the lightest on the list, but it has great performance for the price.''TYPE:''Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''32 F / 0 C''WEIGHT:''1.9 lbs''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''OUTDOOR VITALS MUMMY \xa020''The''Outdoor Vitals Mummy''is a good budget sleeping bag for winter trips and outdoor activities. Simple and affordable!''TYPE:''800 Down, Mummy''TEMPERATURE:''20 F / -7 C''WEIGHT:''2.7 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''7.5 x 8.5 inches''“Budget bag for cold weather”''Check price on Amazon''CAMTOA SLEEPING BAG''The''Camtoa Sleeping Bag''is very compact and affordable. It’s a good bag for camping and backpacking during the spring and summer. Don’t use it for cold climates.''TYPE:''Nylon, Polyester and Cotton''TEMPERATURE:''59 F / 15 C''WEIGHT:''1.7 lbs''STUFF SACK SIZE:''4.7 x 11.4 inches''“Budget bag for summer”''Check price on Amazon''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Let me tell you a personal story:''A few years ago I was in Venezuela, ready to hike the amazing''Mount Roraima''. I was traveling with my friend Jabi, and since we started our trip in Cuba, we didn’t bring much warm gear. I have four different sleeping bags, and I choose between them according to the temperatures of the country I’m going to visit. Anyway, that time I had brought my Camtoa sleeping bag, which is great for summer and tropical climates. I knew it wasn’t enough for the Roraima trek but it was pretty difficult to find a good sleeping bag in Venezuela at that time.''Venezuela is a tropical country and the top of Roraima is just 2,810 meters. ‘It’s gonna be ok,’ I thought. That night, though, was one of the coldest of my life. I had all my clothes on and yet the night was horrible. You make those mistakes from time to time, but you learn something. I promised myself I would always check that I had the right gear for every hike.''Be sure you have a good, warm sleeping bag if you are doing a winter trail or if you are hiking at a high altitude. The''WM Alpinlite 20''and the''MH Phantom 28''are my favorite choices for cold weather.''Would you pin it? Thanks''GPS for Travel''Ultralight Backpacks''Pants for Hiking''Hiking Sandals''Outdoor Watches''Hiking Water Bottles''Hiking Cameras''Did you like the Top 11 Lightweight Sleeping Bags for Travel? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Ultralight Backpacks 2018''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''Top 10 Travel Backpacks 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''Unless you are traveling in the coffee paradise of Colombia, where you can buy a cup in literally every corner, you’ll probably experience problems finding good-quality coffee while on your travels. Moreover, if you like to travel off the beaten path, as I do, the problem gets worse; sometimes it’s impossible to find even a gas station. That means no coffee, not even a watery espresso!''If you go hiking or camping, bringing your own portable coffee maker is the only solution. I have good news for all you coffee junkies! Now you can find compact, portable,''travel coffee makers''at a reasonable price. They are perfect for camping, backpacking or any kind of trip!''Sometimes, if you are visiting big cities in Europe or the U.S.A., a cup of coffee can be surprisingly expensive and not always good! A portable coffee maker come in handy in those situations. It doesn’t matter where you are… just bring your favorite coffee brand and prepare yourself a tasty cup. By the way, you’d be surprised by the quality of these small machines! I’ve tried a few myself and I couldn’t believe it! Yes, I have to be honest, they’re not as good as desktop Italian machines, but still really good. If I give ten points to classic Italian machines, these travel coffee makers deserve at least a seven or eight.''Personally, I can’t start the day without a good cup of''coffee''. Once I have my drink I feel ready and full of energy to keep moving. If I’m hiking, coffee is a must-have. The best thing about these travel coffee makers is that they are super lightweight and compact, so they don’t take up much space in your backpack.''There are many models and it’s difficult to make the right choice, but don’t worry! I’ve done the job for you! I’ve created a''list of the best coffee makers for travel.''How do I know they are the best? Well, unfortunately I haven’t tried all of them, just a few. But even if I’d tried all of them, you would be following one man’s recommendations. Instead, I’ve read hundreds of reviews and compared them all to find the''best products''. The following list is based on the feedback of satisfied customers, so you can trust the product.''Check other buyer’s guides to find the''best packing cubes'',''luggage locks''and''travel adapters''!''COMPARISON CHART OF THE BEST TRAVEL COFFEE MAKERS''TRAVEL COFFEE MAKER''TYPE''PRICE''EDITOR RATING''GSI ULTRALIGHT''Pour Over''$''4.7''KUISSENTIAL SLICKDRIP''Pour Over''$''4.7''PRIMULA BREW BUDDY''Pour Over''$''4.5''AEROPRESS''French Press''$''4.8''BODUM''French Press''$''4.2''ESPRO TRAVEL PRESS''French Press''$$''4.6''HANDPRESSO''Espresso''$$$''4.7''MINISPRESSO''Espresso''$$''4.6''STARESSO''Espresso''$$''4.5''BIALETTI''Classic''$''4.5''WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE BUYING A TRAVEL COFFEE MAKER:''Types''As you know, a wide variety of coffee machines is available on the market. When it comes to portable travel coffee makers, most models can be categorized as''“Pour Over Coffee Makers”'',''“French Press”''or''“Espresso Makers”''. There are other models but I think these have the best quality-price ratio.''POUR OVER COFFE MAKER''This kind of coffee maker is the best option for long-term travel because it is compact and lightweight. When you are traveling for weeks or even months, I recommend that you carry as little (and as light) as you can. It might seem like a few grams won’t make a difference but they do. A bit more here, a bit more there … your backpack gets heavy like a rock.''On the downside, the quality of a pour over coffee maker is not as good as that of other coffee makers and it takes some time to get your coffee ready, as you’ll be pouring a bit of water, then a bit more … and so on.''FRENCH PRESS''French press coffee makers work differently. All the coffee gets immersed in hot water, so it captures more of the coffee flavor and natural oils. The quality of the coffee tends to be better than when using a pour over maker.''On the downside, French presses are more difficult to clean. Sometimes, especially after a lot of use, the seal between the glass and the filter doesn’t work perfectly and coffee grinds might get into the drink. Traditional models are made from glass, but travel versions are designed for on-the-go use, so they are made from plastic and other non-breakable materials. The ones I’ve tried make pretty good coffee.''ESPRESSO MAKER''Espresso machines produce a highly concentrated, dark, delicious brew that is the favorite option for many coffee lovers. The machine applies pressure in the process, so it gets the maximum flavor and oils from the coffee. Some portable espresso coffee makers can’t use the same amount of pressure as big coffee machines, but still … the result is fantastic! Most brands have managed to produce small and light models, so you can take your espresso maker almost anywhere. They are the most expensive models on the list, but you know … high quality comes at a price.''Let’s make coffee! What do I need?''WATER''Yes, we need water. I recommend that you use filtered bottled water, as it can have an impact on the final taste. Good water makes good coffee. I use this''MSR stove''to warm water and cook when I’m hiking, and I find it to be great. There are also some compact travel boilers which can be very helpful when you are staying in a hotel without a common kitchen. Otherwise, you can ask someone from the staff to get you hot water; most of the time they’ll do so.''BEANS''The easiest method is to bring ground coffee so you can use it straight in the machine. However, coffee lovers, including me, can be very meticulous on this matter and prefer to grind the beans just before brewing the coffee. In that case, you’ll need a hand grinder. Don’t worry, you can find many on the market and they are compact and cheap.''MILK''A very personal option. I usually take coffee without milk … and without sugar! I like to feel the real taste of it. Certain models come with a milk frothing feature that some might like.''ADVANTAGES OF PORTABLE TRAVEL COFFEE MAKERS:''Easy to carry''This is probably the biggest advantage. You can carry a portable coffee maker anywhere and enjoy beautiful views with a cup of your favorite coffee in hand. Those small pleasures have no price.''Amazing brewing''It’s important to be realistic, so don’t expect the same quality you’d get from a desktop coffee maker. That said, I think travel coffee makers have a great quality overall, especially the espresso makers. Forget about drinking poor quality coffees in bus stations and crappy bars. You won’t be disappointed!''Lightweight''All models on the list are designed for travelers and outdoor lovers. They are built to be lightweight and compact so you can carry them in your backpack, barely increasing its weight.''Easy to clean''An important factor when you are traveling or hiking. You don’t want to carry dirty stuff. You need easy-to-clean gear to make your life easier. Most models can be easily cleaned with fresh water.''Affordable''One thing is sure: A good travel coffee maker won’t break the bank. The cheapest models start from as little as $10 while more professional options are about $100.''DISADVANTAGES:''Batteries''There is a wide variety of models; some must be charged using regular batteries or need electricity to work. Don’t worry, I wanted to avoid this disadvantage so I have selected only portable coffee makers that don’t need batteries or electricity.''WHAT DO YOU NEED?''Think about what you really need. Some models are lighter and more affordable while others make better coffee but are bulkier and heavier. If you are looking for quality, the espresso makers on this list received better feedback. They make delicious coffee!''If you are looking for something lightweight and cheap for a long-term backpacking trip, maybe a simple pour over coffee maker would do the job.''REVIEW OF THE TOP 10 BEST TRAVEL COFFEE MAKERS''Best Pour Over Coffee Makers''GSI ULTRALIGHT''“Simple and cheap”''Check price on Amazon''The''GSI Ultralight''is an excellent choice for those who want to travel light. I recommend this kind of coffee maker for camping and hiking. It’s ultralight and compact, so it won’t take up much space in your backpack. it comes with sturdy legs to clip to nearly any mug.''There’s not much to say about it. It’s simple and cheap and it works just fine. It’s easy to use and easy to clean. A great option for campers and outdoor lovers!''KUISSENTIAL SLICKDRIP''“Ultralight and efficient”''Check price on Amazon''The''Kuissential Slickdrip''is another ultralight, collapsible, cheap option. As you know, these coffee makers take more time to prepare the drink because you must pour the water slowly. Otherwise, the coffee won’t develop a pleasant taste and you could spill water over the filter. Other than that, it’s a great model. If you compare it with the GSI Java, the Kuissential is a bit lighter even though the two machines have a similar design. On the downside, there is no cover, but I don’t think that would be a deal-breaker.''It’s made from high-quality silicone; it’s durable and flexible and it doesn’t absorb or pass on any taste into your drink. Probably, the best travel coffee maker in the pour over style. It has a bright orange color which can make it easy to spot outdoors or in the depths of a dark backpack. l highly recommend it for long-term travelers, campers and hikers.''It takes number 2 filters.''PRIMULA COFFEE BREW BUDDY''“Versatile and cheap”''Check price on Amazon''Designed to brew one cup at a time, the''Primula Coffee Brew Buddy''is a fantastic tool to make delicious coffee anytime, anywhere. It’s one of the simplest models on the list and works in a manner similar to tea bags, as it doesn’t require filters. There is a fixed mesh filter that you must clean after every use. This can be an advantage because you don’t need to worry about filters when you are outdoors. It’s more eco-friendly too, as the mesh filter is reusable.''If you like tea, it will do that job with no problems. The mesh filter gets inside the cup, so just pour some water and immerse the tea in it for a few minutes.''As you can see in the picture, it’s easy to use. It’s also compact and lightweight, so it’d be a great companion for travelers and hikers.''Best French Press Coffee Makers''AEROPRESS''“Best value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''The''Aeropress''is probably the best French press on the market right now. I’ve tried it myself and it makes a rich, delicious coffee. It’s a very popular coffee maker and it has received a lot of positive feedback. It’s also very fast; it takes less than a minute to prepare the drink. Thanks to its fantastic design, it reduces the amount of time the coffee remains immersed in the water, therefore reducing the acidity of the drink. At the same time, the air pressure created on the glass helps extract more natural oils and flavor, producing a super smooth, intense coffee. It actually creates some pressure, so the result is in some ways similar to espresso coffee makers.''It comes with several accessories but the process is simple: You place the microfilter in the bottom cap of the chamber and twist the cap. Then you place two scoops of the ground coffee of your preference. Pour hot water into the chamber and stir the coffee and the water for about ten seconds. Finally, insert the plunger into the chamber and press. In about twenty to thirty seconds you’ll get an exquisite cup of coffee.''Yes, it’s bigger than pour over coffee makers, but the pieces pack quite compactly. I think it might be a good option for all kinds of travelers and outdoor lovers. It’s made from a resistant plastic so you don’t need to worry about breaking the machine.''Most people reviewed it as the''best travel coffee maker of the year''. Moreover, it has an affordable price.''BODUM INSULATED''“Practical and versatile”''Check price on Amazon''The''Bodum French Press''is an elegant and practical option. The French press filters the ground coffee, which remains inside the chamber. The main advantage is that it comes with a sippy spout so you can drink your coffee almost any place, even during a car or train ride – a great feature for those coffee addicts who spend many hours moving around. The container is made from insulated double-wall stainless steel so the coffee will remain hot for a longer period of time than with other models. You can make tea and other drinks in the same way. It’s easy to use and easy to clean.''On the downside, the coffee might get acidic and bitter because it remains in contact with the water until you drink it all. If you are looking for something practical to get your coffee ready any time, this may be a good solution. On the other hand, if you’re looking for the best quality, I think there are better options. The Aeropress makes a more delicious coffee.''ESPRO TRAVEL PRESS''“Great portability and flavor”''Check price on Amazon''The''Espro Travel''is probably the best option for transporting hot coffee. It makes about 300 milliliters of good-quality press coffee and works in a way similar to the Bodum press. The stainless-steel flask is vacuum insulated and keeps drinks hot for several hours. It works with two-stage extraction-blocking micro-filters that make delicate, delicious coffee. When you close the seal cover, you can transport your coffee anywhere with no leaks. Then, you open it and drink straight from the flask.''Once you have finished your coffee, just open the flask; it’s easy to clean because it doesn’t have many accessories, like other models do. Just rinse the mug, separate the microfilters and put everything under water. It’s resistant, compact and light at 345 grams, which is lighter than the famous Aeropress.''Best Espresso Coffee Makers''HANDPRESSO''“High-quality espresso”''Check price on Amazon''The''Handpresso''is awesome! I tried it myself and the results are fantastic. I love it because it’s compact and easy to use, and – of course – it makes a delicious, rich espresso. It works by using a pump (it’s actually similar to a bicycle pump) that gets the needed pressure into the machine, making an authentic, high-quality espresso.''I think it’s the best travel coffee maker in the espresso category, and it’s a very popular choice with lots of positive reviews. On the downside, it’s not as light as the Aeropress, which remains number one in my opinion.''One more thing: Keep in mind that this machine makes only espresso shots. If you are traveling with more people or drink a lot of coffee, you will need to make coffee all the time. That’s the price for better quality.''MINISPRESSO''“Best overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''The''Minispresso''is another amazing option. Some people prefer it over the Handspresso because it’s lighter, more economic and easier to pump and it comes with a useful cup. Yeah! It’s definitely a good espresso coffee maker. So why isn’t it better than the andpresso? Well, the main difference is that while the Handpresso produces coffee under 16 bars of pressure, the Minispresso produces only eight bars. Nevertheless, that’s enough pressure to make delicious espresso coffee so it would a great, more affordable option.''Like all the items I’m reviewing on this list, it’s hand operated, so no batteries or electric power is needed. I wanted to keep it this way to avoid unexpected “surprises” when hiking, camping, etc.''STARESSO''“It makes delicious cappuccino”''Check price on Amazon''I wanted to include the''Staresso''in this list because it’s a bit different from other espresso makers. Do you like cappuccino? If the answer is yes, this would be your best option. It comes with a milk frothing feature that makes it unique! It provides up to 15 bars of pressure to get an excellent, fine espresso.''It’s portable, compact and fast. It’s a bit more complicated to use due to the extra features, but it’s nothing you can’t learn in a few minutes. The price is also amazing – way cheaper than the Handpresso. If you want to have a delicious cappuccino anywhere in the outdoors or even at home, this might be your coffee maker.''A Classic''BIALETTI MOKA ESPRESS''“Traditional style”''Check price on Amazon''The''Bialetti Moke Espress''is the perfect option for those who want the classic Italian stovetop pot. It might be a bit bulkier than the other options for long-term travel but the quality is really good. It’s made from resistant polished aluminum in the classic octagon shape. You don’t need extra accessories, filters or anything like that. Just add water, place the ground coffee in its place and put it on the fire. I think it’s a great idea for camping too; you’ll create a fire and then make coffee. No need for an extra pot to get hot water.''OTHER ITEMS YOU MIGHT NEED:''Coffee Grinder''JAVAPRESSE''“Fantastic coffee grinder”''Check price on Amazon''The''Javapress''is one of the best portable hand coffee grinders on the market. It has a great design and it’s lightweight, easy to use, fast, silent and efficient. You can use it for travel and outdoor sports, as well as at home. If you don’t like to use ground coffee and prefer to grind it yourself to obtain the maximum flavor, this might be your option.''WHICH ARE THE BEST TRAVEL COFFEE MAKERS?''Alright! How was it? Do you still have doubts? I’ll try to help you out here!''If you are looking for the best balance of quality, performance and price, the''Aeropress''is, in my opinion, the best travel coffee maker of the year. If you are looking for something simple and cheap for long-term travel, the''Kuissential Slickdrip''would do it.''For real coffee addicts who want the best quality regardless of the price or weight, I’d go with the''Handpresso''. You can really make delicious espresso coffee with that machine.''WANT TO KNOW THE HISTORY OF COFFEE AND ESPRESSO MAKERS?''Coffee is an African plant, from''the highlands of Ethiopia''. The Cafa region may be responsible for the name. According to one of the “legends” of the discover of coffee, an Ethiopian shepherd realized some of his goats changed their behavior after eating the leaves of the coffee. They were much more active.''From Ethiopia, coffee was brought to Arabia. The Arabs were the first to cultivate this “miraculous” plant, which assumed great social importance due to its use in medicine to cure diverse diseases. From Arabia, coffee went to Egypt in the sixteenth century and soon after to Turkey. In Europe, it was introduced in Italy and England around the seventeenth century. Coffee was consumed by various social classes, including intellectuals. Soon after, it became popular in other European countries, arriving in France, Germany, Switzerland, Denmark and Holland.''Following its expansion around the rest of the world, coffee arrived in the Americas and the United States – currently the world’s largest coffee consumer and importer. It was the Dutch who spread coffee around the world. Initially they transformed their colonies in the East Indies into large coffee plantations and, with the French and Portuguese, brought coffee to America.''The first espresso machine, patented by Mr. Luigi Bezzera, was introduced to the world in 1901. It was a rudimentary machine operated by steam. The patent was sold to Mr. Desidero Pavoni in 1905. He brought a new model of espresso machine called Ideale to the market.''At that time, Mr. Teresio Arduino founded his company “Victoria Arduino” and began spreading espresso culture over Italy.''This modern machine hit the market only in 1947 at the end of World War II, when the Gaggia factory introduced its latest model to the market – the first one capable of producing pressurized water (7 bars or more), passing water through a layer of coffee.''In 1967 Mr. Nello Dal Tio built the first modern espresso machine.''Other Travelers also liked:''Duffel Backpacks''Passport Holders''Sling Backpacks''Travel Laptops''Have you enjoyed the Best Travel Coffee Makers? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Passport Holders''The Best Travel Adapters''Top 10 Travel Duffel Bags Review''Top 10 Best Drones for Travel''If you liked this, please share it:''Having your own dive computer is one of the best decisions you can make when you get into scuba diving. Why? Because we want to enjoy our dives, but always keep safety in mind.''Using a''dive computer,''you can easily plan your dives, knowing the depth, remaining time of the dive and sugessted decompression stop, and being sure that the levels of nitrogen have dissolved into your bloodstream. It’s the best tool you can get to avoid decompression sickness.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best scuba fins'',''scuba wetsuits'',''BCDs'',''full face masks''and''regulators''!''The 10 Best Dive Computers. Comparison''Dive Computer''Air Integration''Trimix''Price''Editor Rating''Suunto Eon Steel''Yes''Yes''$$$$''4.7''ScubaPro Mantis 2''Yes''No''$$$$''4.6''Cressi Giotto''No''No''$''4.8''Hollis TX1''Yes''Yes''$$$''4.8''Oceanic OCL''No''No''$$''5.0''Mares Icon HD''Yes''No''$$$''4.5''Shearwater Research''No''Yes''$$$''5.0''Oceanic VTX''Yes''No''$$$''4.0''Suunto D4i Novo''Compatible''No''$$''4.2''Suunto Zoop Novo''No''No''$$''4.8''A few things to consider when choosing the best dive computer:''Different gases''Even though diving with compressed air is by far the most popular option, some divers also use Nitrox and Trimix during their immersions.''Think about whether you need a dive computer that is able to calculate different mixes depending on what kind of diver you are.''Air integration''Some of the best dive computers allow you to read your air consumption, thanks to the use of a modern transmitter. Of course, computers featuring air integration tend to be way more expensive. (Keep in mind that air integration is not 100% reliable)''Wrist or Console''If you like to have all the information together, a console computer might be a good option. On the downside, they tend to be bigger, heavier and not as easy to check if you are bringing a camera.''Wrist computers are more practical and easier to read, even when bringing a camera. They can also be your everyday watch thanks to their new, cool designs.''I prefer wrist computers. They are also the most popular choice for recreational and technical divers. That’s why you’ll see that there are no consoles on my list of the''best dive computers''.''Easy to understand''There are different features, sizes, types of screen display, colors, etc. Some of them are more legible and easy to understand, while others might have more detailed information.''If you are a beginner, I suggest that you choose an easy-to-read dive computer with a big screen and simple parameters.''Advanced divers, will probably need a high-tech computer, ready to calculate various\xa0gas mixtures and other features.''Budget''Sophisticated models can be really expensive. However, you don’t have to buy the most expensive computer if you don’t need advanced features.''If you’re just getting into diving, you can find great computers from $200-$400. For more experienced divers who need more features, the best models start from $500.''Top 10 Best Dive Computers Review''SUUNTO EON STEEL''The''Suunto Eon Steel''is a high Tech Computer. It features a large, bright and easy-to-read screen. It is fully customizable with five different displays and five modes: Air, Nitrox, Trimix, Gauge and Closed Circuit Rebreathers.''Features:''Bright screen, 3D compass, air integration option, rechargeable battery.''Pros:''Easy to use, resistant.''Cons:''Expensive.''“Top-quality dive computer for serious\xa0divers”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO MANTIS 2''The''Scubapro Mantis 2''is a stylish dive computer loaded with topside features and four dive modes: Scuba, Gauge, Apnea and CCR.''Features:''Biometrics data, air integration, replaceable battery.''Pros:''Easy to read, can be worn as an everyday watch, heart rate monitor.''Cons:''No Trimix compatible.''“High-tech computer that also provides biometrics data”''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI GIOTTO''The''Cressi Giotto''is a compact dive computer with a three-botton interface that programs Air, Nitrox and Gauge modes.''Features:''High-definition screen, large numerical displays, replaceable battery.''Pros:''Easy to read, good value for the money.''Cons:''No Air integration, no Trimix mode.''“Great computer for beginners and advanced divers”''Check price on Amazon''HOLLIS TX1''The''Hollis TX1''features Air, Nitrox and Trimix modes, and has the most stylish design.''Features:''Breathing rate, air integration.''Pros:''Easy to use, good value for the money.''Cons:''Not very compact.''“Great value for technical and recreational divers”''Check price on Amazon''OCEANIC OCL''The''Oceanic OCL''is a practical computer with Air and Nitrox modes. Thanks to its stylish, small design, this is a great scuba diving computer you can wear everyday.''Features:''Auto altitude adjustment, replaceable battery.''Pros:''Nice design and size.''Cons:''No air integration, no Trimix mode.''“Use it as your everyday watch”''Check price on Amazon''MARES ICON HD''The''Mares Icon HD''has a high-definition color display that brings tank pressure information to a new level.''Features:''Big screen, air integration, rechargeable battery.''Pros:''Easy to use, great readability.''Cons:''You need to recharge pretty often, no Trimix mode.''“Very easy to use and read”''Check price on Amazon''SHEARWATER RESEARCH''The''Shearwater Research''is the perfect dive computer for those who want to get into technical diving or who need a lot of features. It’s a high-tech computer with Air, Nitrox and Trimix modes, and is one of the best dive computers of 2016.''Features:''Digital compass, Bluetooth integration, LCD display, replaceable battery.''Pros:''Big display, hight-tech quality.''Cons:''No air integration.''“Great computer for technical divers”''Check price on Amazon''OCEANIC VTX''The''Oceanic VTX''has an ultrabright, high-contrast, full-color OLED display with intuitive colors to identify different dive data.''Features:''Bluetooth, air integration, digital compass.''Pros:''Great display, you can profile data and add location and notes.''Cons:''No trimix compatibility.''“Easy to read and great connectivity”''Check price on Amazon''SUUNTO D4i NOVO''The''Suunto D4I Novo''is a computer with a simple design, equipped with a free diving mode.''Features:''Compatible with Suunto air transmitters, replaceable battery.''Pros:''Free diving mode, durable, you can use it like your everyday watch.''Cons:''No Trimix compatibility.''“Good computer for free divers and scuba divers”''Check price on Amazon''SUUNTO ZOOP NOVO''The''Suunto Zoop''is a classic computer equipped with the most important features. It’s one of the best\xa0dive computers for the price and features.''Features:''Air and Nitrox mode, audible alarms, replaceable battery.''Pros:''Good price, easy-to-use interface.''Cons:''No Trimix compatibility, no air integration.''“The perfect computer for entry-level and intermediate divers”''Check price on Amazon''A FEW EXTRA TIPS:''Dive computers are designed to last many years if you take care of them properly. You should clean your dive computer with fresh water after each dive and store it in a dry place protected from the sun.''Do not turn off your dive computer and don’t share it with your mates. The dive computer keeps track of the levels of nitrogen in your body. This includes the nitrogen you accumulate during the dive and the nitrogen you lose between dives. Therefore, it’s important that you don’t share your computer with other divers because you would lose those records.''Other readers were also interested in:''Ultimate guide: The Best Scuba Masks''Ultimate guide: The Best Dive Knives''Ultimate guide: The Best Underwater Cameras''Ultimate guide: The Best Dive Torches''A great PADI article about''how to choose the right dive computer''.''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you like The Top 10 Best Dive Computers Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best snorkeling gear Review 2018. How to Choose th...''The Best Scuba Diving Equipment List''Top 10 Best Dive Cameras Review 2018. Buyers Guide''Top 10 Best BCDs for Scuba Diving. 2018 Ultimate B...''If you liked this, please share it:''You know how important it is to have your own diving gear to make you feel more comfortable underwater. But having a good dive knife might save your life! It will cut you free from fishing lines, ropes, vegetation, etc. in case you get into trouble!''We have already reviewed the''best scuba regulators'',''scuba BCDs'',''wetsuits'',''dive masks'',''dive computers''and''fins''.''Today, I’m going to review''the best dive knives''on the market\xa0to help you make the right choice. I recommend that you compare their features and choose the one that best fits your needs.''The next list contains\xa0the top rated scuba diving knives as indicated by consumers, along with those\xa0I’ve tested myself, to account for\xa0the best dive knives.''Comparison Chart of the Best Dive Knives:''Dive Knife''Type of Blade''Blade Length''Price''Editor Rating''Atomic Aquatics Ti6''Serrated''Straight''4 in''$$''4.8''US Divers Titanium''Serrated''Straight''5 in''$$''4.2''Scubapro Mako Titanium''Serrated''Straight''3 in''$$''4.1''Mares Force Plus''Serrated''Straight''4 in''$$''4.3''Spyderco Salt''Serrated''3.5 in''$$''4.0''Cressi Orca''Serrated''Straight''7 in''$$''4.0''Seac Rip Tek''Straight''3 in''$''4.0''Cressi Sub Skorpion''Serrated''Straight''4.3 in''$''4.1''Cressi Lima''Serrated''Straight''2.95 in''$''3.7''Mares Hero''Serrated''Straight''2.3 in''$''3.0''Reasons why you might want to bring a dive knife:''Some people like to bring knives on their dives while others don’t. I think it has to be clear that a diving knife is not a weapon but a tool.''In normal situations you won’t have to use your knife. However, if you find yourself in any of the following situations, you will be glad to have brought it.''– If you or a buddy gets hooked with a rope or fishing net. Although this doesn’t happen very often, our oceans accumulate more trash and fishing waste every year. Unfortunately, there have been cases of divers who have died due to getting caught in ropes or nets.''– If you find any trapped animals. This situation may be much more likely to happen than the previous one. Hundreds of whales, turtles, seals and other animals get trapped daily in fishing nets and die within hours. If you find one of these animals and can save them with your knife, you will feel awesome!''– For warning your buddies. If you find some danger and you want to warn your dive buddy, you can use your knife by hitting it against the tank.''A few things to take into account to find the best dive knife:''Stainless or Titanium''Stainless knives come in either 300 or 400 series steel. The 300 series is more rust resistant than the 400 series, but it is also a bit softer.''Titanium knives are very strong and rust resistant. I’d recommend using this type of knife to avoid\xa0corrosion.''Blade''The blades of dive knives can be serrated, non-serrated or mixed. Serrated blades are good for cutting seaweed, while non-serrated blades are better for cutting plastic and lines.''I recommend that you''get a mixed knife''with both a serrated and a straight blade so you’ll be prepared for any kind of situation.''Length''The size of your dive knife depends on what you need it\xa0for. If you want a knife in case you get trapped by a line, a small-medium knife will work. That means a knife between 4-6 inches.''If you need a big dive knife for specific activities, there are models bigger than 6 inches. However, keep in mind that they could be uncomfortable to wear.''Top 10 Best Dive Knives''Best Diving Knives. Top end''ATOMIC AQUATICS Ti6''The''Atomic Aquatics Ti6''is a versatile top-quality knife. It comes with both serrated and straight blades, a line-cutting notch and a really comfortable sheath. No wonder why it’s one of the most popular diving knives.''Blade Length:''4 Inches''Material:''Titanium''“Top-quality, lightweight and resistant”''Check price on Amazon''U.S. DIVERS TITANIUM''The''U.S. Divers Titanium''features a serrated edge for cutting through tough materials, while the bottom surface features a line cutter. The knife completely disassembles for cleaning. It’s a 5-inch knife, which is still a good size for recreational divers.''Blade Length:''5 Inches''Material:''Titanium''“High-quality all-around knife”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO MAKO TITANIUM''The''Scubapro Mako''is a great ultralight compact knife. It features extreme resistance to corrosion with a highly durable cutting edge and a very comfortable handle.''Blade Length:''3 Inches''Material:''Titanium''“Compact knife for recreational divers”''Check price on Amazon''Best Dive Knife. Mid Range''MARES FORCE PLUS''The''Mares Force Plus''has a really ergonomic and secure grip. Most of the blade is serrated, but there is a small straight section near the tip. It’s a stainless steel knife, but it features a special PVD treatment to prevent the blade from corroding. Its special shape makes it easy to release, even for gloved hands.''Blade Length:''4 Inches''Material:''Stainless steel''“Comfortable and secure grip”''Check price on Amazon''SPYDERCO SALT''The''Spyderco Salt''is an H1 steel knife with high-performance cutting abilities and great resistance to corrosion, similar to titanium. The Spyderco Round 14mm hole facilitates easy opening when wearing gloves.''Blade Length:''3.5 Inches''Material:''H1 Stainless steel''“High performance and affordable”''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI ORCA''The''Cressi Orca''is made of Italian high-quality 400 series stainless steel. It is considerably heavy and large if you compare it to other models because this knife is also designed to be a work tool. The sheath has loops to attach the knife to your leg or your belt and comes with two leg straps.''Blade Length:''7 Inches''Material:''H1 stainless steel''“Reliable professional knife”''Check price on Amazon''SEAC RIP TEK''The''Seac Rip Tek''features high-performance martensitic stainless steel that provides excellent resistance to corrosion. This knife has great performance in terms of\xa0penetration and control on hard materials.''Blade Length:''3 Inches''Material:''Stainless steel''“Compact and resistant”''Check price on Amazon''Best Dive Knife. Budget''CRESSI SUB SKORPION''The''Cressi Sub Skorpion''has a robust construction and thick blade. One of the sides features a really sharp straight edge, while the other side is partially serrated, including a line cutting notch. It’s a durable and resistant medium-sized knife at\xa0an affordable price.''Blade Length:''4.3 Inches''Material:''Stainless steel''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI LIMA''The''Cressi Lima''is a very compact ultralight diving knife that you can attach to your BCD or gauge hose for easy access. The sheath has a locking mechanism to allow you\xa0to\xa0easily release the knife with one hand. It would be hard to get something better for the price.''Blade Length:''2.95 Inches''Material:''Stainless steel''“Lightweight, practical and compact”''Check price on Amazon''MARES HERO''The''Mares Hero''features 440 stainless steel with a PVD treatment for high resistance to corrosion. It’s a great simple and really compact knife for recreational divers. Keep in mind that the full size is only 135 mm, so I find it too small for spearfishing.''Blade Length:''2.3 Inches''Material:''Stainless steel''“Super compact and budget friendly”''Check price on Amazon''Other divers also liked:''Top 10 Dive Lights''Top 10 Dive Cameras''Top 10 Full Face Masks''The Top Snorkeling Gear''The Top Diving Equipment''The Top Full Face Snorkel Masks''A simple and great PADI article about''Dive Knives''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you enjoy the Top 10 Best Dive Knives Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Scuba Diving Equipment List''Top 10 Scuba Diving Fins Review''Best snorkeling gear Review 2018. How to Choose th...''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''If you liked this, please share it:''Whether you are planning to night dive, dive wrecks or dive underwater caves, having a good dive light is essential, as it will offer you the maximum safety and enjoyment.''There are a lot of models out there with different features. It all depends on what you are looking for, your budget and your needs. That’s why I’m here to help you make the right choice. We have already reviewed other essential gear, like''scuba masks'',''regulators'',''dive computers'',''BCDs'',''underwater cameras''and''dive knives''.''Today, I’m going to review''the best dive lights''on the market so you can pick the one that best fits your needs.''The\xa0Best Dive Lights. Comparison''Light Model''Type of Light Beam''Battery Life''Price''Editor Rating''Phantom Aquatics''Narrow Beam''6 h''$''4.4''UK eLED''Wide Beam''9h-14 h''$$''4.1''Scubapro Nova 230''Narrow Beam''8 h''$''4.2''Light & Motion GOBE 700''Wide Beam''1.5h-3h-12 h''$$''5.0''Sealife Sea Dragon 650''Wide Beam''2h-4h''$$''4.0''Princeton Tec 5''Wide Beam''24h''$''4.4''IST Sports Lumo''Narrow Beam''2h-8h''$''4.2''UK Aqualite S20''Narrow Beam''9h''$''4.3''Light & Motion Sola 800''Wide Beam''Narrow Beam''1h-4.5h''$$$''4.3''Dive Rite LX20''Narrow Beam''4h''$$$''4.2''A few things to consider when choosing the best underwater light:''Type of lights''There are basically''three types of lights:''primary , secondary and photo video lights.''Primary dive lights''should be very bright and durable. They usually have a powerful, bright light which is perfect for night diving. The batteries must run for a long time.''Secondary dive lights''are used as a backup light in case the primary light fails. They tend to be more compact and lightweight, so you can fit them in your BCD pocket. Most of them have a narrower beam.''Photo video lights''feature the widest and brightest beam. These are perfect for recording with wide angle cameras like the GoPro, and also for general photography and video.''Disposable or rechargeable batteries''Rechargeable dive lights''are usually more expensive, but will pay for themselves if you use your dive light frequently. They provide a more powerful light and are more eco-friendly.''Disposable batteries''would be a good option if you are going to use your dive light only\xa0from time to time.''Xenon, LED and HID dive lights''Xenon dive lights''are usually less expensive, but they don’t provide the same amount of brightness that\xa0LED or HID do. On the plus side, Xenon lights give warm, natural colors versus the bluish colors of HID and LED.''LED and HID systems''have a more powerful and lasting intense light. The amazing high color temperature of HID lighting is being surpassed now by the next generation of LED systems. Thanks to their higher efficiency and ruggedness, LED dive lights have become the most popular choice among divers.''Find the best scuba diving light depending on your needs:''For''“night diving,”''exploring reefs and wide areas, you should get a wide-beam bright dive torch.''For''“technical diving,”''planning to''explore wrecks or caves'', you should go for a narrow-beam dive light with long lasting batteries.''For''recording video''or underwater photography, a video diving light with a wide and bright light would be best.''For''looking into crevices''and under ledges and diving in murky water with limited visibility, a tight-beam bright light would be the best option.''Top 10 Best Dive Lights:''Best Scuba Diving Lights. Budget – Mid Range''PHANTOM AQUATICS 1500''The''Phantom Aquatics 1500''features three levels of brightness to adjust depending on the situation.''Thanks to its narrow, bright beam and compact size, it’s a great dive light for wrecks or murky diving, or as a backup light.''“The brightest for its compact size”''Check price on Amazon''UNDERWATER KINETICS eLED''The''UK Ligh Cannon eLED''Dive Light delivers powerful 825 lumens illumination and maintains this brightness throughout the battery life.''It features a wide beam which is great for taking photos and videos, scanning a\xa0reef at night or exploring the interior of a big wreck.''“Strong, consistent, wide beam”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO NOVA 230''The''Scubapro Nova 230''is a medium-size dive torch with long-runtime batteries and rugged construction.''It features a 230 lumens LED narrow beam at a very affordable price. It’s a good dive light for recreational divers as well as a backup for tech divers.''“Great price and performance”''Check price on Amazon''LIGHT & MOTION GOBE 700''The''Light&Motion GOBE 700''features a wide beam, which is great for night diving or illuminating a wide area for taking photos or video.''It’s quite compact, ultralight and affordable.''“Great wide-beam dive light”''Check price on Amazon''SEALIFE SEA DRAGON 650''The''Sealife Sea Dragon 650''is a compact and well built diving light that provides a bright, wide angle.''Besides being a good primary dive light for night diving, this dive torch works really well with a GoPro; it actually comes with a free GoPro camera mount.''“Great for underwater photography and videos”''Check price on Amazon''PRINCETON TEC\xa05''The''Princeton Tec 5''provides a powerful 550-lumens wide beam with the convenience of a pistol grip for momentary or constant illumination.''Its batteries guarantee 24 hours of burn, which is great for such brightness. It’s lightweight, compact and powerful.''“Wide beam and long runtime”''Check price on Amazon''IST SPORTS LUMO''The''IST SPORTS LUMO''is a compact pocket-size dive light with a great\xa0overall performance. The torch works perfectly on land as well as underwater.''It features an output of 800 lumens, a narrow beam angle, three selectable operation modes, very resistant construction made from high-grade aluminum, compact size, durability and long-lasting batteries.''“Good size/brightness/price balance”''Check price on Amazon''UNDERWATER KINETICS AQUALITE S-20''The''UK Aqualite S-20''is a comfortable, compact and ultralight dive light. It features a bright 500 lumens LED lamp, long runtime peformance and a concentrated spot-focusing beam.''You can fit the diving light to your wrist, making it very comfortable to wear.''“Practical narrow-beam dive light”''Check price on Amazon''Best Dive Lights. Top End''LIGHT & MOTION SOLA 800''The''Light&Motion Sola 800''is a very powerful, ultralight and compact dive torch.''It is a very versatile dive torch that comes with two functions: a massive flood and a narrow spot beam. Therefore, you can use it in any situation. It’s a very popular high-quality dive light.''“Versatile and perfect for travel”''Check price on Amazon''DIVE RITE LX20''The''Dive Rite LX20''is a top-end dive light that features 20,000 LUX, powerful brightness, a six-degree concentrated light beam and a rotary magnetic on/off switch.''Its compact size make it ideal for any type of diving requiring a primary dive light.''“High quality and comfort”''Check price on Amazon''A few extra tips:''If you are getting into night diving and wreck diving, I recommend buying a high-quality dive light. You will realize that despite the price difference, the investment is worth it.''Think about taking a''PADI specialty course''to practice these activities safely: Night Diver Course, Wreck Diver Course and Cavern Diver Course.''Take proper care of your scuba light. Clean it with fresh water after every dive. Once it’s clean, let it dry and store it in a dry place protected from the sun.''Read the instructions carefully and take special care of the batteries. Some batteries must be stored in a certain way, recharged from time to time, etc.''Do not mix different types of batteries. Do not mix used batteries with new batteries.''If you are going to explore caves or big wrecks, I recommend that you always carry a backup light. A simple and economic light will do the trick. The important thing is to have an emergency light.''Other divers also liked:''Top Scuba Diving Gear Review''Top 10\xa0Dive fins''The Best Full Face Masks''Top 10 Wetsuits for Scuba Diving''The Best Snorkeling Gear List''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you enjoy the Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Dive Knives of 2018. Scuba Diving Revi...''Top 10 Best Scuba Regulators Review 2018. Buying G...''Top 10 Scuba Diving Fins Review''The Best Scuba Diving Equipment List''If you liked this, please share it:''A good climbing rope is one of the most important parts of your climbing gear, if not the most. However, most people face a real challenge in\xa0choosing the best climbing rope or the one that best fits their needs.''You’ll look at the manufacturer’s label and check characteristics like impact force, dynamic elongation, UIAA falls and other things, and you probably won’t know exactly what they mean.''Here, I’m gonna explain the main considerations to take into account when choosing a good rope. I’ll also provide a detailed comparison of''the best climbing ropes''.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best outdoor watches'',''lightweight backpacks'', and''camping tents''!''Comparison. The Best Climbing Ropes''Rope model''Type of rope''Weight''Impact Force''Static elongation / Dynamic elongation''Price''Petzl Arial 9.5 mm''All-around''58 g/m''8.8 KN''7.6% / 32 %''$$''Sterling Evolution Velocity 9.8 mm''All-around''62 g/m''8.8 KN''8.6% / 26.4%''$''Petzl Contact 9.8 mm''All-around''60 g/m''8.4 KN''9% / 35%''$$''Sterling Marathon Pro 10.1 mm''Workhorse''63 g/m''8.6 KN''8.4% / 35.3%''$''Sterling Fusion Nano IX 9.0 mm''Skinny''52 g/m''8.5 KN''7% / 33.1%''$$''Bluewater LP 9.7''All-around''61 g/m''7.8 KN''8.9% / 32.2%''$''Edelrid Eagle 9.5''All-around''62 g/m''9.0 KN''7.1% / 29%''$$''Beal Joker GD 9.1''Skinny''52 g/m''8.2 KN''8% / 34%''$$''How to choose the best climbing rope''Static and dynamic ropes''Static ropes are hardly ever\xa0used in climbing. They can be used in rescue, rappelling and industrial applications.''Dynamic ropes, however, can stretch to absorb the impact and provide a soft catch to the climber.''In this review, we are going to focus only on the properties of dynamic ropes.''Choosing the right dynamic rope''Single Ropes''This is the most common type of rope. It’s a strong rope you can use for sport climbing, traditional climbing and big walls on a fairly straight line.''It is perfect for 25 to 30 meter high routes, with\xa060 meters the minimum recommended length and 10.5mm the maximum diameter because\xa0the weight might hinder the dynamic movement of the rope.''Half Ropes''These ropes are usually used by experienced climbers. Sometimes, the route doesn’t follow a straight line and you have to climb in a zigzag. The system of half ropes allows you to complete this kind of route. You will be tied into two half ropes and will clip them independently to the left and right to avoid the zigzag effect; each rope will keep a straight line.''Although they can be used in trad climbing, these are popular for alpine climbing where you might need two ropes to rappel off the peak.''Twin Ropes''Twin ropes must always be clipped together to the same protection. The system is based on two very thin ropes, usually less than 8mm, that are used together like a single rope. This system is a bit lighter than the half rope one, and you can rappel twice as far.''Twin ropes are used in ice climbing and rock climbing routes where full length is needed for rappelling.''Choosing the diameter and weight of your rope''Workhorse ropes (Ø9.9 – 10.2mm)''Thick workhorse ropes are designed to resist the toughest conditions, so they are perfect for those routes with rough rocks and edges, big walls and extreme use in general.''Their large diameter makes them the strongest and most durable of all ropes. On the downside, they can be quite big and heavy in comparison to the\xa0other types.''All-around ropes (Ø9.5 – 9.8mm)''If you are looking for a rope with an average weight, diameter, resistance and fall rating, don’t look further.''These popular ropes are used in sport, traditional, rock and ice climbing, and they are the ones people choose the most.''Skinny ropes (Ø<9.5mm)''Using the latest technology, manufacturers have designed very light and thin ropes, that still offer\xa0good resistance and fall rating.''They are great for alpine climbing routes where you have to carry your gear all the time, and saving a few kilos can make a difference.''On the downside, they are usually expensive and not as durable as all-around ropes.''Technical characteristics of the best climbing ropes''UIAA number of falls''This is an indicator of the number of falls the rope can withstand before failing. These numbers are based on tests in which lab falls are usually heavier than real climbing falls. Therefore, your rope should last longer than indicated, but always check it after heavy falls.''Impact force''This is the force that the first fall puts on the rope, measured in Kilonewtons. The same force is felt by the climber at the end of the fall. You should look for a rope with a low impact force, because\xa0it absorbs more energy and reduces the impact the climber feels.''Static elongation''This will show you how much the rope stretches when a 176 pound weight is tied to its end. This percentage is linked with impact force and dynamic elongation. Just to get an idea, you should look for a static elongation around 7 percent.''Dynamic elongation''This percentage refers to the elasticity or the amount of stretch in the rope during a fall. A good rope should have a dynamic elongation around of 30 percent.''Choosing a length for your rope''Ropes are generally between 30 and 80 meters, with 60 meters being the most common length.''If you are looking for a rope you’ll use only in indoor climbing centers, 40 meters might be a good length for walls between 15 and 18 meters high.''For most sport and trad climbing routes, 60 meters will be enough.''Top 8\xa0Best Climbing Ropes Review''All-around Ropes. Best Climbing Ropes''Petzl Arial 9.5 mm''Check price on Amazon''The number-one rope on the list is a versatile rope for experienced climbers, ready to be used in rock, mixed or iced environments. And it is super light!''It’s a very thin rope, only 9.5mm in diameter, and it has an excellent balance between performance and weight, as well as great longevity and a good price-to-quality ratio.''Thanks to its Duratec Dry Treatment, the Petzl Arial is very resistant to water, dirt and abrasion.''This is the rope I would recommend for use by\xa0experienced climbers who are looking for a versatile and lightweight rope with high resistance.''Sterling Evolution Velocity 9.8 mm''Check price on Amazon''Another great model, the Sterling Evolution Velocity\xa0is a bit thicker than the Petzl Arial so that it will withstand the toughest conditions. It is also more appropriate for less experienced climbers.''This is an all-around rope meant to be used in rock, mixed and ice climbing, with a great balance between performance and weight as well as one of the best quality/durability/price balance.''This is a top-quality rope with high resistance, dry core treatment, low impact and a great fall rating.''Petzl Contact 9.8 mm''Check price on Amazon''This is a great all-around rope with an excellent balance between\xa0light weight and durability for greater versatility.''The core and sheath of this rope are bonded together at the rope ends by a modern ultrasonic process called UltraSonic Finish, giving it greater durability. It also has a special thermal treatment that stabilizes the core strands and improves consistency.''It’s in the range of all-around ropes which means it’s a versatile rope you can use in sport, trad, mixed and ice climbing, and is suitable for entry-level and experienced climbers.''This is the best climbing rope I recommend for someone who will own only one rope or someone buying his first rope.''Bluewater Lightning Pro Double Dry 9.7''Check price on Amazon''The Bluewater Lightning Pro Double Dry is a great all-around rope for sport, trad and alpine climbing. It’s very lightweight and has a very low impact force and super high fall rating.''The Lightning Pro is easy to handle and easy to clip. This rope has become very popular lately due to its great performance.''It has a very affordable price; definitely a good value for the money.''Edelrid Eagle Light Pro 9.5''Check price on Amazon''Edelrid has created a very light and compact rope for experienced climbers. Despite being quite skinny for an all-around rope, it remains very strong and durable.''You can use this versatile rope for a wide range of activities like sport, trad, indoor and alpine climbing.''The rope is made in Germany, so you have the guarantee of a serious brand that has been making ropes and alpine equipment for over 150 years. It’s a high-quality rope for serious climbers.''Best Workhorse Ropes. Best climbing Ropes''Sterling Marathon Pro 10.1 mm''Check price on Amazon''This is a great all purpose single rope to work harder projects or to use on big walls. It is designed to withstand impact, abrasion and friction, and it has a relatively low impact, giving it a very comfortable catch.''Even though it is\xa0a workhorse rope of\xa010.1mm in diameter, it’s still light enough for use in almost any situation. It actually weights 63 g/m, which is super light for this kind of rope.''This is the rope for those looking for some extra confidence while facing hard conditions, for beginners or for someone looking for a very durable and resistant rope.''Skinny Ropes. Best Climbing Ropes''Sterling Fusion Nano IX 9.0 mm''Check price on Amazon''Although this list is focused mainly on single all-around ropes, I’m going to review what I think is one of the best skinny ropes on the market: the Sterling Fusion Nano IX.''There are some situations when you want to pack lighter, and no rope can beat the 52 g/m weight and the resistance of the Sterling Fusion.''It has a great durability/weight balance and it’s more resistant than other skinny ropes of\xa0the same diameter.''This light rope won’t last as long as some all-around or workhorse ropes, but it is ultra light and resistant.''Of all the skinny ropes you can find on the market, the Sterling Fusion Nano stands out the most. One of the best climbing ropes on the list.''Beal Joker Golden Dry 9.1''Check price on Amazon''The Beal Joker Golden Dry is a great choice for the light and fast climber. This rope uses UNICORE technology and a Golden Dry treatment to improve functionality, weather protection and durability. This rope is meant to resist extreme winter conditions, so it’s a good choice for sport, trad, alpine and ice climbing.''On the other hand, it’s a skinny rope, so you have to treat it with care. Skinny ropes are not as durable as all-around ropes. I would recommend the Beal Joker Golden Dry only for experienced climbers who will enjoy its high-tech features.''Conclusion. The best climbing rope for you:''For climbers with some experience, I’d recommend the''Petzl Arial 9.5mm''for its versatility, light weight and durability.''For entry-level climbers or someone who will own only one rope, I’d recommend the''Petzl Contact 9.8 mm''which is lighter than the''Sterling Evolution Velocity 9.8 mm''(even though both are really good ropes).''For someone looking for an ultra-light skinny rope with the best resistance on the market for its thin diameter, I’d go for the''Sterling Fusion Nano IX''.''Finally, if you want a very durable rope that resists the toughest situations and routes with rough rocks and edges, or extreme use in general, the''Sterling Marathon''might be your rope.''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''You might be also interested in'':''The Best Hiking Gear List''The Best Hiking Watches''The Best Tactical Watches''Have you enjoyed\xa0The best climbing ropes review? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Sunglasses for Hiking and Outdoor Spor...''If you liked this, please share it:''Having your own scuba gear, like a scuba regulator,''scuba mask'',''wetsuit'',''BCD''and''fins'', will make you feel more comfortable and confident underwater.''If you are looking for a''scuba diving regulator'', you must\xa0find the one that best fits your needs. That depends on what type of diving you do, the features you need and your preferences.''There are so many options and it’s not easy to find the right one. I want to help you make the right choice; that’s why I’ve reviewed the''t''op rated dive Regulators,''along with those\xa0I’ve tested myself, to create this list of\xa0the Best Scuba Regulators.''Top 10 Best Dive Regulators. Comparison:''Regulator''Balanced''First Stage''Price''Editor Rating''Atomic T3 Titanium''Balanced''Piston''$$$$''5.0''Atomic Aquatics ST1''Balanced''Piston''$$$''5.0''ScubaPro MK25 A700''Balanced''Piston''$$$''4.5''ScubaPro MK25 G260''Balanced''Piston''$$''4.4''Sherwood SR2''Balanced''Piston''$$''5.0''Hollis 200 LX''Over-Balanced''Diaphragm''$$''4.3''Mares Prestige 15X''Balanced''Diaphragm''$$''4.6''Aqualung Core Supreme''Balanced''Diaphragm''$$''4.9''Cressi Sub Elipse T''Balanced''Diaphragm''$''4.4''Mares Rover 12S''Balanced''Diaphragm''$''4.9''How does a regulator work?''The regulator is the most complex pat of your scuba equipment. Actually, it’s based on a fairly basic principle. However, a regulator is made from pieces of high-precision and modern engineering.''The regulator takes the compressed air coming from the tank and adjusts it to the pressure we require to breathe. The regulator supplies air only when we inhale and expels the breathed air when we exhale.''A regulator consists mainly of the following parts:''First stage:''This is the part connected to the tank. The first stage reduces the air pressure to an intermediate pressure.''Second stage:''This is the nozzle we breathe through. The second stage reduces the intermediate air pressure until we get the right pressure to breathe naturally.''Second alternative stage:''This works exactly like the second stage. It’s used in emergencies to share air with buddies.''Hoses:''Hoses supply air to the different parts of the regulator: the second stage, the BCD (so it can be inflated) and the manometer (to control the amount of air left in the tank).''A few things to take into account to find the Best Scuba Regulator:''Warm or Cold Water''Scuba regulators will be more or less demanding depending on the type of diving you do.''If you are a warm water diver, any regulator will do. On the other hand, if you tend to dive in cold water, you’ll need an environmentally sealed first stage that will prevent the air from getting frozen inside the first stage.''First Stage – Piston or Diaphragm''Piston first stages are built with fewer moving parts, having a high-performance and simple design, while the diaphragm first stages use a rubber diaphragm with a heavy spring to operate the valve between the two chambers.''Both systems work extremelly well, but diaphragm first stages usually have better cold water reliability.''Balanced or Unbalanced''A balanced first stage regulator has a consistant air supply at a constant pressure, regardless of the air remaining in the tank.''An unbalanced first stage will make the diver’s breathing effort increase slightly as the tank empties.''Top 10 Best Scuba Regulators Review.''Best Dive Regulators. Top End''ATOMIC T3 TITANIUM''The''Atomic T3 Titanium''is one of the finest dive regulators you’ll find on the market. It’s built of\xa0ultralight and durable titanium and features great corrosion resistance\xa0and the best breathing performance. It is commonly used for cold and warm water, extreme depths and technical dives. Obviously, it’s not cheap.''Technical info:''Balanced piston, warm and cold water.''“Top quality regulator for serious divers”''Check price on Amazon''ATOMIC AQUATICS ST1''The''Atomic Aquatics ST1''features a stainless steel first stage with great durability. All the second stage is constructed of\xa0ultralight corrosion-resistant titanium. Thanks to its advanced design, low inhalation efforts are needed even at deep depths.''Technical info:''Balanced piston, warm and cold water.''“Great performance, ultralight and durable”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO MK25 EVO A700''The''Scubapro M25 EVO A700''features a nice design with a chrome-plated brass body. The exceptional A700 second stage forms the ultimate high airflow system for all diving needs. Whatever your dive destination and style, the SCUBAPRO A700 lets you breathe naturally and effortlessly underwater.''Technical info:''Balanced piston, warm and cold water.''“High breathing performance”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO MK25 EVO/G260''The''Scubapro MK 25 EVO G260''is another high-quality diving regulator. Its high performance makes it a great choice for all demanding divers. Like the MK25 EVO 700, it’s resistant and well adapted to use in cold water, but you can get it for a more affordable price.''Technical info:''Balanced piston, warm and cold water.''“Best value for the money among\xa0top-end regulators”''Check price on Amazon''Best Scuba Regulators. Mid Range''SHERWOOD SR2''The''Sherwood SR2''is a technically advanced regulator with a great breathing performance. The first stage is completely dry and environmentally sealed. It features five low-pressure ports on a 360-degree swivel, two high-pressure ports and a two-piece piston for precise optimum balance.''Technical info:''Balanced piston, warm and cold water.''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''HOLLIS 200LX''The''Hollis 200 LX''features a pneumatically balanced PVD valve for great breathing performance, and has an ergonomic design that channels bubbles away from the field of view and reduces exhaust effort.''Technical info:''Balanced diaphragm, warm and cold water.''“Ergonomic and practical”''Check price on Amazon''MARES PRESTIGE 15X''The''Mares Prestige 15X''is made of ultralight techno-polymer that guarantees durability and corrosion resistance. The VAD system delivers excellent and natural breathing at any depth and makes it one of the\xa0best scuba regulators for its price.''Technical info:''Balanced diaphragm, warm water.''“Compact, reliable, and suitable for travel”''Check price on Amazon''AQUALUNG CORE SUPREME''The''Aqualung Core Supreme''features a pneumatically balanced second stage for easy breathing, ultralight resistant construction and great performance in cold waters. This is one of the best values among regulators for cold water.''Technical info:''Balanced diaphragm, warm and cold water.''“Resistant to freezing and ultralight for travel”''Check price on Amazon''Best Scuba Diving Regulators. Budget Friendly''CRESSI SUB ELIPSE TITANIUM''The''Cressi Sub Elipse''features a second stage regulator with a breakthrough patented design that utilizes an elliptical shape, resulting in less breathing effort for the diver. This dive regulator is built of\xa0high-impact thermo plastic materials and ultra lightweight titanium components, making it perfect for traveling.''Technical info:''Balanced diaphragm, warm and cold water.''“Best value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''MARES ROVER 12 S''The''Mares Rover 12 S''is a great economical buy for the diver on a budget. It’s a simple but ergonomic, resistant and durable dive regulator.''Technical info:''Balanced diaphragm, warm water.''“Reliability and great price”''Check price on Amazon''How to care for your regulator''The weakest point of a regulator is the bond in which the hoses are coupled to the first stage. It’s important that from time to time you ensure the hose protections are in good condition.''Make sure all items are securely fastened to your BCD. When diving, don’t let pieces like the manometer or the second alternative stage hang because they can hit the bottom.''Clean your regulator with fresh water after every dive. Don’t completely submerge the first stage. Just clean it with a little water.''Once your regulator is clean, keep it in a dry place protected from the sun.''Other divers also liked:''Top 10 Dive\xa0Knives''Top 10 Diving Lights''Top 10 Scuba Cameras''Top 10 Dive Computers''The Best Snorkel Gear''The Best Scuba Equipment''PADI article:''Scuba Diving Regulators''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you enjoy The Top 10 Best Scuba Regulators Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best Dive Cameras Review 2018. Buyers Guide''Top 10 Best Dive Knives of 2018. Scuba Diving Revi...''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''Top 10 Best Dive Computers Review 2018. How to cho...''If you liked this, please share it:''Scuba diving is always a great experience, but having the right equipment and being able to record or take photos of your encounters with sharks and turtles… that’s priceless!''Now you take a look at all the options, underwater cameras, types of housing, accessories, etc. and you may think, ‘Oh my god! Where to start?’''No worries. I’m here to explain\xa0to\xa0you all the different types of diving cameras and help you find the one that best fits your needs!''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best scuba lights'',''knives'', and''computers''!''10 Best Dive Cameras Review 2018. Comparison:''Photo''Camera''Resolution''Price''Editor Rating''Canon ELPH 300 HS''12.1 MP''$''4.3''Canon S120''12.1 MP''$$''4.3''GoPro 6 Black''12 MP''$$''4.5''Sony RX100 III''20.9 MP''$$''4.4''Sony Alpha a 7II''24.3 MP''$$$$''4.3''Olympus OM-D- E-M5 Mark II''16 MP''$$$''4.5''Canon 7D Mark II''20.2 MP''$$$$''4.7''Nikon D810''36.3 MP''$$$$''4.7''Sealife''13 MP''$$''4.2''Olympus TG-4''16 MP''$$''4.2''Things to consider when choosing the best underwater camera for scuba diving:''Why do you want your diving camera?''This is actually the key question! In this article I focus on''the best diving cameras;''that’s why I’m going to recommend that you get a camera with good performance (those you already know of, like Canon, Nikon, Sony, etc.) and a housing to make it waterproof.''If you are going to use your underwater camera for snorkeling, that’s cool, too! But maybe you don’t need to spend a lot of money; you can get a tough underwater camera like the''Olympus TG-4'', which is actually a great camera. But as I said, I’d use it only for snorkeling, traveling, etc.''Types of cameras''We can divide modern cameras into three types:''compact, mirrorless and DSLR.''In addition to\xa0those, some companies have created specific cameras for scuba diving like the''Sealife Micro'', and you wouldn’t need to use any housing in this case. I’ve heard different opinions about this camera, but it might be a good solution depending on your budget.''Compact cameras''These are the smallest and usually the cheapest on the list.''Pros:''Good size and weight for travel''Cheapest option''You can use wet lenses and shoot macro and wide angle''Cons:''Less quality, more noise, smaller sensor''Less battery''Shutter delay and sometimes bad focus''Mirrorless cameras''I love mirrorless cameras when it comes to diving. These cameras allow you to take great photos without spending the fortune you would for a DSLR camera.''Pros:''More quality, larger sensor than compact cameras''Usually lightweight for travel''You can interchange lenses''Good focus''Cons:''You can’t use wet lenses, which\xa0means you have to shoot either macro or wide angle''DSLR cameras''For those looking for a camera with the maximum performance, greatest image quality and the most options in terms of\xa0lenses, DSLR cameras are the best option.''Pros:''Best image quality, larger sensor''Reduced shutter lag''Best focus system''Best performance with low light''Great choice of lenses''Cons:''Heavier and larger''More expensive''You can’t use wet lenses''Finding the right housing for your dive camera:''Basically, there are two types of housings:''plastic housings and aluminium housings''.''Plastic housings are way cheaper than aluminium, and so you can assume that the quality is not the same.''Carefully choose the housing, because in some cases it\xa0migh cost you much more than the camera itself. That’s why they also have to be ergonomic, resistant and durable.''If you are a recreational diver who is going to use the housing from time to time on your vacations, a plastic housing might be enough. Ikelite has amazing plastic designs with almost the same quality as aluminium ones, and at half the price.''For serious divers and photographers looking for the most ergonomic and durable housing, and willing to get the best underwater pictures, I’d suggest that you go for aluminium housing. However,\xa0keep in mind that they are “quite” expensive!''Best Dive Cameras. Budget''CANON ELPH 300 HS''The''Canon ELPH 300 HS''is one of the most popular compact cameras. Canon says it’s the thinnest camera in the world. It comes with a 12 MP CMOS sensor, 24mm wide angle lens, 5x zoom and optical image stabilizer. It also records 1080p HD video.''Pros:''Lightweight and thin, best price on the list.''Cons:''Not very resistant, lower image quality.''Find a housing:''Canon''⁄''Ikelite''“Budget camera”''Check price on Amazon''CANON S120''The''Canon S120''captures beautiful 1080p HD video, having great Wi-Fi connectivity, a 12.1 MP CMOS sensor, and the Canon DIGIC 6 image processor for fantastic low-light performance and image quality.''Pros:''Compact, good quality for the price.''Cons:''Not very rugged.''Find a housing:''Canon''⁄''Ikelite''⁄''Nauticam''“Good value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''GOPRO HERO 6''We all have seen amazing photos and videos taken with a GoPro and we know the great results. I just love it. The new''GoPro Hero 6''offers the best video quality, delivering twice the performance compared to its predecessor. If you want to save some money, you can find the''GoPro Hero 5 Black''(which has great video quality, recording 4K professional resolution) for an amazing price now.''Pros:''Really compact, option to fit it to some masks, high-quality video.''Cons:''Wide angle (fisheye).''“Amazing video quality”''Check price on Amazon''Best Diving Cameras. Mid Range''SONY RX100 III''The''Sony RX100 III''will surprise you with a 20.9 MP CMOS sensor, 1080 HD quality video and its consistently fast 24-70mm lens. It would be hard to find another camera that can provide better image quality in such a small package.''Pros:''Super compact, high-quality images.''Cons:''Autofocus can be slow in low light.''Find a housing:''Camdive''⁄''Ikelite''⁄''Nauticam''“High quality in a small camera”''Check price on Amazon''SONY ALPHA a7II''The''Sony Alpha a 7II''takes stunning pictures thanks to its full frame sensor format. It features a super fast auto focus system and 24.3 MP of resolution. The in-body image stabilization is very robust and works amazingly during both image and video capture.''Pros:''Full frame, fast focus, high-quality images, interchangeable lenses.''Cons:''Expensive.''Find a housing:''Camdive''⁄''Ikelite''⁄''Nauticam''“Great overall performance”''Check price on Amazon''OLYMPUS OM-D E-M5 Mark II''You will love the''Olympus OM-D- E-M5 Mark II''because it features a 16 MP sensor with a 40 MP high-resolution shot mode, full HD video capabilities and a 5-axis image stabilization system. If you want a great mirrorless camera at a reasonable price, this is your best choice.''Pros:''Good value for the price, lightweight, interchangeable lenses.''Cons:''It takes a while to figure out how the menu works.''Find a housing:''Olympus''⁄''Ikelite''⁄''Nauticam''“The best size/price/image quality balance”''Check price on Amazon''Best Dive Cameras. Top End''CANON 7D MARK II''The''Canon 7D Mark II''is one of the best dive cameras you can find for an affordable price (in its category). This is a top-end camera that features a 20.2 MP CMOS sensor with dual pixel autofocus, high-speed continuous shooting up to 10.0 fps and amazing full HD video. It’s one of the few that can auto focus very well during underwater videos.''Pros:''Top-end image and video quality, interchangeable lenses.''Cons:''Heavier and bigger than mirrorless cameras.''Find a housing:''Ikelite''⁄''Nauticam''“The best value for the money in top-end cameras”''Check price on Amazon''NIKON D810''The''Nikon D810''is simply the best camera on the market for nature, landscapes and diving. It offers stunning high-resolution images with a full spectrum of colors and a complete dynamic range, plus the best low light performance. The 36.3 MP CMOS sensor, EXPEED image processing engine, 51-point autofocus sytem and professional full HD video capabilites make it by far the best camera on the list.''Pros:''Best DSLR quality, interchangeable lenses.''Cons:''Expensive.''Find a housing:''Sea & sea''⁄''Ikelite''“Premium product for serious photographers”''Check price on Amazon''Best underwater cameras for which\xa0you don’t need a housing.''(Mainly for snorkeling)''SEALIFE MICRO HD''The''Sealife''is an underwater camera that you can actually use for diving, and not only for snorkeling. You can take pretty good pictures and videos, and bring it down as low as\xa060 meters in depth. The camera is easy to use with quick setup menus.''Pros:''Compact, good price.''Cons:''No zoom, no manual white balance adjustment.''“Great diving camera without the need for\xa0a housing”''Check price on Amazon''CHECK OUT the Sealife DC2000 with Pro Dio Light & Flash Set!''Check price on Amazon''OLYMPUS TG-4''The''Olympus TG-4''is a very popular, tough camera, and one of the best dive cameras you can get for snorkeling, without a doubt. Besides the underwater performance, this camera is pretty good at taking regular land pictures (great for hikers, bikers, adventure travelers).''Pros:''Ultra-rugged, raw support, wide angle and macro modes.''Cons:''No great video quality, maximum depth: 12-15 meters.''“Good for snorkelers and adventure travelers”''Check price on Amazon''A few extra tips:''How to care for your camera''Most people feel love for their cameras (I do, at least). I mean, you go through many unforgettable moments together. After a while, the camera becomes like a travel buddy. In addition, cameras are not exactly cheap, so we want them to last as long as possible. It is very important that we take good care of our cameras.''Storage:''Regardless of the type of camera you are using, whether it’s a compact, bridge or reflex camera, you must store it in a dry, fresh and clean place. Humid areas must be avoided at all costs, as they can cause the formation of fungi in the lens and other parts of the equipment.''Keep it inside a protective bag, always with the cap on.''Traveling with your camera:''Sometimes you want to save 20 euros by buying a cheap camera bag, but this can ruin an expensive camera. It’s important to bring a bag that adequately protects the camera from shocks. The camera must be fixed inside the bag without moving from side to side.''Protection:''In this article we recommend several underwater housings for your camera. Make sure you get good protection to prevent water leakage. The housings can be very expensive but you must see this as an investment.''Other divers who enjoyed the\xa0Top 10\xa0Best Dive Cameras were also interested in:''The Best Diving Wetsuits''The Best Diving Fins''The Best Diving BCDs''The Best Full Face Masks''The Best Diving Masks''The Best Diving Regulators''The Best Snorkel Gear, Best Equipment''Enjoy this PADI article:''Underwater video and photo tips''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you enjoy The 10 Best Dive Cameras Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''The Best Scuba Diving Equipment List''Top 10 Scuba Diving Fins Review''Top 10 Best Dive Computers Review 2018. How to cho...''Top 10 Best BCDs for Scuba Diving. 2018 Ultimate B...''If you liked this, please share it:''A good scuba mask is the most personal and essential part of all your diving gear. There are a lot of different options out there in terms of\xa0design, quality and budget, and that makes it difficult to choose the right diving mask.''In this article, I’d like to help you make the right decision and find''the best dive mask''.''Check out other gear reviews to find the''best scuba cameras'',''wetsuits'', and''fins''!''A few things to consider when buying the Best Scuba Diving Mask:''Dual Lens and Single Lens''Dual lens masks are usually the most popular scuba masks on the market. They have a smaller volume than single-lens models, and that makes them easier to clear and equalize. They can be replaced with corrective lenses.''Single lens masks offer the widest view because they don’t have a frame along the nose bridge. Due to the design of the mask, single lens can’t be replaced with corrective lens.''Frame and Frameless Masks''Frameless masks are made from\xa0a silicone skirt molded straight to the lens, providing\xa0a great open view. On the downside, their elements cannot be removed and replaced if needed.''Mask Skirt''Today, most skirts are made of high-quality, durable silicone. The main goal of the mask skirt is to prevent water from coming in by providing a good seal. For extra sealing, some models are equipped with a double skirt that reduces the possibility of a leak.''How to find the right fit''To determine whether a dive mask fits you, place the mask against your face, look down\xa0and inhale through your nose. Now let go; the mask should stay in position.\xa0If it falls, it is too big.''Top 10 Best Scuba\xa0Masks. Comparison''Dive Mask''Design''Price''Editor Rating''Atomic Aquatics Venom''Frameless''Single Lens''$$$''4.7''Hollis M1 Frameless''Frameless''Single Lens''$$$''4.6''Scubapro Frameless''Frameless''Single Lens''$$$''4.3''Scubapro Spectra''Frame''Twin Lens''$$''4.7''Scubapro Solo''Frameless''Single Lens''$$''4.5''Octomask GoPro''Frameless''Single Lens''$$''4.3''Cressi Big Eyes Evolution''Frame''Twin Lens''$''4.6''Phantom Aquatics Panoramic''Frame''Multi Lens''$''4.5''Cressi Liberty''Frame''Single Lens''$''5.0''Oceanic Mako''Frame''Single Lens''$''4.2''Best Dive Masks Review''Top 10 Scuba Diving Masks Review of 2018''The\xa0Best Dive Masks. Top End''ATOMIC AQUATICS VENOM''The''Atomic Aquatics Venom''provides a high level of comfort, quality optics and design. Two different silicone materials create the frameless skirt, offering a comfortable face seal and stability at the same time.''Design:''Frameless, Single Lens.''Pros'': Wide panoramic view, high quality, probably the best scuba mask on the list.''Cons:''Expensive.''“One of best scuba diving masks in the market”''Check price on Amazon''HOLLIS M1 FRAMELESS''The''Hollis M1''has a modern frameless construcion in a pure silicone skirt. This mask provides one of the clearest lenses thanks to the low iron content of the glass. This makes the lens distortion free and helps improve color and visibility. One of the best dive\xa0masks on the list.''Design:''Frameless, Single Lens.''Pros:''Clear lens, wide vision, easy to store in a BCD pocket.''Cons:''A bit expensive.''“Comfortable, stylish mask”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO FRAMELESS''The''Scuba Frameless''is a top-quality mask designed to provide maximum vision and the most comfortable experience due to the silicone larger skirt.''Design:''Frameless , Single Lens.''Pros:''Maximum view, top-quality materials and design.''“Wide view and comfort”''Check price on Amazon''The Best Scuba Diving Masks. Mid Range''SCUBAPRO SPECTRA''The''Scubapro Spectra''is a great scuba mask with an amazing performance. It features swivel buckles for easy adjustment and resistent tempered glass lenses.''Design:''Frame, Twin Lens.''Pros:''Good value for money, option to get it with colored lenses, adding great clarity.''Cons:''No panoramic view.''“High quality and nice\xa0design”''Check price on Amazon''SCUBAPRO SOLO''The''Scubapro Solo''features a very adaptable silicone skirt that seals well on most people. It features a low volume design for easy clearing and a very resistant construction.''Design:''Frameless , Single Lens.''Pros:''Seals very well.''“Good seal and great resistance”''Check price on Amazon''OCTOMASK FOR GOPRO''The''Octomask''works with all GoPro models. It features a soft silicone skirt to ensure the best seal and maximum vision thanks to the frameless construction. This is the mask for those who love to record all their submarine adventures.''Design:''Frameless , Single Lens.''Pros:''Great vision, best diving mask for\xa0GoPro.''Cons:''Better for snorkeling, where you don’t get bubbles in front of the camera.''“Adjust your GoPro to the scuba mask”''Check price on Amazon''The Best Scuba Diving Masks. Budget''CRESSI BIG EYES EVOLUTION''The''Cressi Big Eyes Evolution''features angled lenses to provide maximum vision, a comfortable silicone skirt and resistant tempered glass lenses.''Design:''Frame, Twin Lens.''Pros:''Great vision for twin lenses, good seal.''“Resistant and durable”''Check price on Amazon''PHANTOM AQUATICS PANORAMIC''The''Phantom Aquatics Panoramic''is one of the cheapest (but still a good dive mask) of the entire list. It features a panoramic lens, a push-bottom buckle for easy adjustments and a silicone skirt with a great seal.''Design:''Frame, Multi Lens.''Pros:''Great wide\xa0vision.''Cons:''Reduced space if you have a big nose.''“Panoramic vision”''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI LIBERTY''The''Cressi Liberty''is a very comfortable mask built with a maximum-vision single lens and high-quality adjustable buckles. This mask is usually top rated by all consumers.''Design:''Frame, Single Lens.''Pros:''Great vision, One of the best scuba diving masks for the price.''“Best value for the money”''Check price on Amazon''OCEANIC MAKO''The''Oceanic Mako''is another mask that comes with great features for a very reasonable price. This model provides a comfortable Neoprene strap that I find really cool.''Design:''Frame , Single Lens.''Pros:''Neoprene strap.''Cons:''Not as durable as high-quality masks.''“Comfortable to wear”''Check price on Amazon''A few extra tips:''How to avoid fogging''A mask that gets continuously foggy can totally ruin your dive. You can’t enjoy the wonders of the underwater world with a foggy mask. For some people, a foggy mask can even be a little stressful. The good news is that we have several solutions to get rid of the fog:''When you have a new mask:''1. Use some toothpaste:''This is a home remedy well-known to all divers. Toothpaste removes the thin layer of silicone that new masks have when they leave the factory. Apply the toothpaste to both sides of the glass, rub gently with your fingers, leave the toothpaste on for a few minutes and rinse with water.''2. Use a lighter:''You can gently burn the surface of the glass with a lighter to remove that thin layer we were talking about earlier. Be careful not to burn the skirt of the mask. A few passes with the lighter should be enough to remove the silicone layer.''Before each dive:''1. Spit:''This is the procedure used by 99 percent of divers. Simply spit on your mask before each dive. Spread the saliva through the lens and then rinse with water. Our saliva is a top-quality natural anti-fog. Keep in mind: The glass must be dry before you spit. If you have wet it accidentally, you must dry it.''2. Soaps:''There are many soaps (especially for masks and also regular ones) that work the same way saliva does, preventing your mask from fogging. Usually, a single drop is enough. Spread it with your fingers and then rinse the mask. The mask should be dry before you apply the soap.''How to clean and care for your mask''If you want your diving equipment to last for a long time, you must take care of it properly. Remember that you should always clean your mask after''EVERY''dive. No exceptions! Clean your mask with fresh water to prevent the formation of bacteria. You will also get rid of the salt that damages the materials. Try to clean the mask properly, eliminating sand debris that may remain on the joints and straps.''Let it dry, then store your mask in a dry place protected from the sun.''Other divers also liked:''The Best Scuba BCDs''The Best Scuba Regulators''The Best Dive Computers''The Best Dive Knives''The Best Dive Lights''The Best Snorkel Gear List''Enjoy this PADI article:''Masks for Scuba Diving''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you enjoy The Best Scuba Diving Masks Review? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Scuba Diving Fins Review''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''Top 10 Best Dive Knives of 2018. Scuba Diving Revi...''Top 10 Best Scuba Regulators Review 2018. Buying G...''If you liked this, please share it:''Many people have asked me: How can you travel for so long? Are you rich or something? Is there any trick for traveling with little money?''I’m definitely not rich, but that doesn’t mean I can’t travel for years. Think about how much you spend living in a Western country and how much you would spend living in Vietnam or Cambodia, where the minimum salary is 125 euros a month.''If you think money is the problem, I can tell you that anyone can take a long trip. Yes, I said anyone! Obviously, if you start with some savings you have an advantage, but it’s not an essential requirement. Just ask any of my Argentinean friends who left Buenos Aires with 10 pesos in their pockets and made it all the way to Playa del Carmen, Cartagena or California, where they ended up working and earning good money.''The key is to spend little money and manage it well. Today, I’m going to tell you about 36 tricks that, throughout the last six years, have helped me travel cheaply as a backpacker, spending little and even earning money along the way.''“The Richest Man Is Not He Who Has The Most, But He Who Needs The Least”''Here are some helpful''tricks for budget travel''and…some''tips for making money''while traveling!''36 Tips to Travel on a Budget like a Pro''Flights''1. Choose the right destination.''Before you take your backpack and send everything to hell, think about your trip, about how you are going to travel, transportation, budget, etc. It is a good idea to have an idea about \u200b\u200bthe countries you want to visit. You won’t spend the same money traveling in''South America''as you would in Canada, Europe or Japan.''The most popular options for a long backpacking trip are Latin America and Southeast Asia. Two beautiful regions that typically have “friendly” prices in. Some exceptions, like Brazil,''Chile'',''Argentina''and Costa Rica, no longer have attractive prices for budget travelers.\xa0However, that doesn’t mean you can’t visit them without spending little money.''No worries, you can also travel around Europe without going bankrupt.''2. Find a cheap flight.''My favorite flight booking site is, without a doubt,''Skyscanner''. One of the great advantages is that you can search flights for the whole month with a comparison table. So, if you want to travel in March, you can select the whole month of March and get a table with all the flights for each day. This way, you know which day is the cheapest.''Skyscanner also gives you the option to select “everywhere” as the destination. It looks for the cheapest flights to different destinations all over the world.''Tip:''Sometimes it’s much cheaper to fly from other, nearby countries. For example, when I went to Cuba, the ticket from Madrid cost 450 euros. Searching with Skyscanner, I got a flight from Brussels to Cuba for only 200 euros! And the trip from Spain to Brussels cost me less than 20 euros with Ryanair. It was a pretty good deal.''To find the best deals, I recommend that you search for flights between two and three months before departure. After that, the prices usually go up.''According to some studies, the cheapest flights are booked at around 1 a.m., when the airlines adjust their rates. (To be quite honest, I don’t know if this is completely true.) As for the days, flying on Tuesdays and Thursdays is often cheaper.''Although Skyscanner usually offers the best prices, once you’ve found your flight, you can check it on the airline’s website. Sometimes it may be cheaper to buy the flight straight from the airline.''If you can be flexible and avoid traveling in August or Christmas, much better!''Traveling within the country''3. Hitchhike.''Hitchhiking is the cheapest option, although some people are not comfortable doing it. In my opinion, it’s a great way to save on transportation costs and meet people along the way.''You can write your destination on a piece of paper or cardboard and wait for a nice driver to show up. You can smile, dance or jump when a car passes… a friendly and positive attitude can help you a lot in that situation.''That’s how we traveled through Chile and Argentina, and despite their being two expensive countries in South America, we spent almost nothing on transportation.''Check out this website:''Hitchwiki'', which is like the hitchhiker’s bible. It will show you the best places to ask for a ride in each country, how to get there, interesting stops, etc.''4. Use carpooling.''Another good option, although not free, is''BlaBlaCar''(and other carpooling websites). The driver sets a route for a specific day and collects travelers to share the gas expenses. This option works very well in Europe and is spreading rapidly around the world. In the USA and Canada, you can find''ridesharing''.''5. Travel by bike.''I’ve met many people while I traveled entire continents by bike. Without a doubt, this is a great way to save money, get a work out and visit many unexplored places.''Note'': Firefighters and many temples usually give free accommodation to cyclists and bikers.''6. Take local buses.''Sometimes when I ask for transport (and they see I’m a foreigner), locals tend to recommend good buses, with AC, comfortable seats, etc. without realizing that I was looking for the classic “chicken bus” in which you have a sack of potatoes under your seat and a woman carrying a few chickens next to you, not only for saving money, but for getting in touch with the people and feeling how they really live in that country.''Ask for local buses and enjoy the experience.''If you decide to take an “executive” bus, try to travel during the night. That way, you will save a night in accommodation.''7. Check out low-cost airlines.''Personally, I love to travel overland. However, the distances in some countries can be huge and flying is sometimes much cheaper than taking the bus. In Colombia, you have''VivaColombia''; in Asia,''Lionair''and''Airasia''; and in Europe,''Ryanair'',''Vueling''and many others.''8. Find a ride on a sailing boat.''Did you know that many captains are looking for help during their sailing trips? In exchange for a few hours of cleaning or cooking, you get a free ride, living like a real sailor. If you like the plan, check out my guide for''traveling the Caribbean''on a budget.''There are a few helpful websites that post opportunities.''Crewbay''and''Findacrew''are the most popular.''You can also show up at the marina and ask around.''Accommodation''9. Hostels.''Hostels are some of the best options when you are traveling on a budget. They are cheap and usually well located, and you get the chance to meet lots of people. Try to stay in a shared dormitory with more people. They are usually large rooms with several beds or bunk beds, in some cases up to 10, 15 or more beds, although most of them have from six to eight beds. I understand that many people prefer some privacy, but what do you do alone, in a private room, in a city where you don’t know anyone? Nothing; you get bored.''Shared dorms are cheap, and after exchanging a couple of “Where are you from?”, you have friends for the days you’re staying in that place.''You can find hundreds of hostels on websites like''Hostelworld''or''Booking''. My favorite technique is to check online for the area with more hostels; then I go to any of them and ask for accommodation. When they tell me the price, I tell them it’s too expensive and I let them know that I’m looking for the cheapest hostel in the area. Most of the time they tell me which one is the cheapest. 🙂''If you arrive at night or are very tired, it’s worth booking a hostel in advance to avoid surprises. I recommend''Booking.com''.''10. Airbnb.''If you’ve met other travelers (or if you are in a group) and are planning to stay for several days in the same city,''Airbnb''can be a good option. Sometimes you can find amazing prices, staying in villas with a big swimming pool, houses in front of the beach or small castles!''11. Couchsurfing.''One of the top tricks for traveling like a pro,''Couchsurfing''allows you to stay in homes all over the world, meeting great people and enjoying unexplored local places. Some people have had very good experiences and others not so good. Personally, I’ve always had great experiences. I even''lived for over a week in a real pirate ship''when I was traveling along the Caribbean. Pretty amazing, isn’t it?''Look carefully at the profiles of the users and check the feedback given by other visitors. This way, you’ll know that you are in good hands. It’s a free platform, although making a gesture towards the host is well appreciated; you can bring a bottle of wine, cook a delicious dish, etc.''12. Make local friends.''Sometimes we can’t understand how people from other countries can be so hospitable. Open your mind. In''Indonesia''and''India'', for example, I stayed at the home of people I had met on the bus. After I spoke with them for a few hours, they asked me, “Where are you staying when we get to the city?” And I said, “I don’t know, I’ll find something!” Their response? “You don’t know where you are staying? Please stay at my house with my family tonight.” The best part of all was not that I didn’t have to stay in a hostel, but that I shared a great experience with that family.''Udin, my Indonesian “Uncle”.''13. Camping.''Another great way to not spend on accommodations. If you’re planning a long trip, you can bring a''tent''and a''light sleeping bag''and pitch your tent almost anywhere. That’s how I traveled with my friend Jabi throughout Patagonia and saved a lot of money.''14. Sleep at airports.''Did you know that you can sleep in many airports without a ticket? Check out''this website''.''Food''15. Choose local markets.''Almost every city in the world has a few local markets where you can taste the typical food for a very reasonable price.''Street stalls and local restaurants are also good options—yes, those with red plastic chairs and a lady in the entrance cooking some greasy food. Ask the locals and they will recommend nice, cheap places. The more local people you see eating in a place, the better it is.''16. Free food.''In some Asian countries, you can eat for free. For example, if you go to any Sikh temple in India (and in other countries), you will be offered a simple but delicious lunch. In addition, it’s a unique experience to share a meal with such great characters.''17. Prepare your own meals.''Bring a small, light stove and prepare your own meals. I usually\xa0carry a good stove, but during some trips, I even cooked using the Coca-Cola-can-and-alcohol technique. Have you heard of it?''Check out this video:''Volunteers''One of the keys''to extend your travels, meet new people and feel more like a local and less like a tourist.''18. Workaway.''Workaway''offers a network of volunteer jobs around the world; in some ways, it’s like getting a temporary job. Let me explain: they don’t pay you in cash, but they offer you accommodation and food in exchange for four or five hours of work a day. If you are in a country where the average salary is 200 euros and you work only half a day, you would earn 100 euros a month. If you get a bed and food instead of those 100 euros, it’s not a bad deal at all.''The best part of all is that you can meet a lot of people, learn a new language and enjoy a unique experience.''You must pay''29 euros to sign up'', but you get a list of all volunteer opportunities all over the world. There are a lot of different jobs, in both the city and the countryside: working in a hostel, teaching languages, building adobe houses, working on farms, etc.''Volunteering in Mexico''19. Woofing, Helpx and Hippohelp.''It’s basically the same principle as Workaway. The difference is that''Woofing''offers volunteer jobs, mainly on organic farms. The jobs are usually taking care of the garden, caring for animals, bioconstruction, composting, making cheese, collecting honey and many other activities.''Woofing is focused more on farms in rural areas, while Workaway offers all sorts of opportunities in both the countryside and the city.''Helpx''is a similar option.''I’ve recently found a good alternative to woofing and helpx. It’s called''Hippohelp''. There are not as many options as in woofing yet, as the website is pretty new. However, it looks very good, and it’s FREE.''A few more tips to travel on a budget:''20. Do not change money at the airport.''Although I admit that I have found exceptions, airports usually offer the worst exchange rates.''On the other hand, you may arrive at the destination and have no local currency. You can change 30 or 50 euros for the first few days, then change the rest later.''21. Free walking tour.''Many places offer free walking tours to show you around the city. They are typically offered by tourism students who get experience by offering tours and who earn some tips.''22. Get a local SIM card.''Most local SIM cards don’t cost more than one euro and can be very useful on occasions like booking accommodation or transport. This way you prevent your roaming plan from ruining you.''23. Communicate in the local language.''What? Do you want me to learn Thai? Yes. The truth is, it’s not that difficult. You don’t have to become a translator, but learn how to say “Hello, how are you?”, “Thank you, how much is it?”, “expensive,” “cheap” and numbers. It’s essential to bargain and get the best prices.''They’ll charge you more anyway, but instead of paying three times more, you’re going to pay only double. : P''24. Bring your student card.''Many museums, temples and tourist sites offer discounts up to 50 percent if you have a student card. If you don’t have one, you can make a fake one; they won’t notice.''25. Get travel insurance.''This is a very personal option, but if you must go to a hospital in another country, the bills can be very expensive. Some travel insurances have very reasonable prices.''26. Check out blogs and forums.''You can find great tips on''travel blogs''and forums that will help you save money.''Tips for making money while traveling''There are hundreds of ways to earn money while you travel. I’m going to list some of the best known. Many of them have worked quite well for me.''27. Ask for work in the hostels where you stay.''If you are visiting India or Bolivia, I don’t think it’s worth it because the salary is so small. (It would be better to find a Workaway opportunity.) In Europe, on the other hand, you can get a decent salary for a few weeks’ work. Sometimes they also offer you accommodation.''Working in a hostel in Cusco, Perú''28. Get a job in a bar.''Many bars and restaurants hire extra staff during the peak tourist months. The summer in Europe and the high season in Playa del Carmen are good places and times to look for work.''29. Sell tours for agencies.''In''Cusco'', Cancun and many other places, agencies are looking for people to give away flyers and sell tours. Usually, you get a good commission if you manage to sell a tour.''30. Sell your own handicrafts.''At first it seems quite difficult but with a little effort, practice and originality, you can finance your travels by designing beautiful collars and bracelets.''Selling handicrafts in Trinidad & Tobago''31. Sell food.''Learn how to cook brownies, pies, sandwiches or omelets and sell them on the streets and beaches.''32. Sell your photos.''Do you take good photos? Print a few and sell them as postcards. If you put a little wooden frame on them, they are not postcards anymore, they are pictures and you can sell them for five times more.''33. Teach your language.''Use your knowledge to teach your language in other countries, either privately or in academies.''34. Do you play an instrument?''Let’s play and dance! Prepare a good set of songs and play them on the subway or in a square. From time to time, smile and pass around the hat.''35. Sign up for Fiverr and sell your services''Take a look at''Fiverr''because you can sell any online service: programmer, designer, translator, editor, composer…there are hundreds of possibilities!''36. Pick fruit.''Canada, Europe and Australia are good places to make extra money during your travels. Sometimes it’s difficult to get a visa to do it legally, but in many places you can pick fruit without a visa.''The most important tip of all:''Go with the flow and enjoy!''It’s normal that you will worry about how much you spend extend your trips, but honestly, don’t obsess about that. It can ruin your trip. Follow these tips and have fun!''Do you have more Tips to Travel on a Budget? Please, leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''When you are getting into scuba diving, it’s normal to have doubts about the new world you are about to explore. After all, water is not our natural habitat. That’s why we need time and training to adapt our bodies to the underwater world. Despite the safety measures available nowadays, divers should have mental control and good skills. Safety first!''Everyone can enjoy this great activity! Follow these useful tips to dive safely, eliminate underwater stress and enjoy all your dives!''30 Scuba Diving Tips for Beginners''1. Take it easy.''Have you snorkeled for a while and now want to try scuba diving? That’s great! However, scuba diving can be intimidating for some people. I mean, you dive to a certain depth, breathing underwater, wearing a tight suit and having a lot of bubbles come out of your face. It can be a weird felling.''Many people try doing a “baptism” before getting into a course to be sure they’ll enjoy the underwater experience.''2. Snorkeling and swimming.''Some people want to scuba dive but barely know how to swim. Are you kidding me? You must feel secure in this new environment. Swim, snorkel, dive deep and spend hours in the water. Having that experience will make you feel more secure and relaxed when you go scuba diving.''3. Find a good dive center.''Now that you are ready to get certified, you must find a good dive center. Where do you want to get your certificate? Perhaps an exotic destination? Find a dive center with a good reputation and experienced instructors. The course price may vary considerably depending on the country. More expensive doesn’t always mean better. Check out the center’s reviews.''4. What kind of certification do you want?''The first certification you’ll get is called “Open Water Diver”. Some people get the next level, the “Advanced Diver,” right away (i.e., the two courses, one after the other), which allows them to dive down to 30 meters. Although it’s possible to do this, I recommend that you get the “Open Water” first, then do a few dives. After that, when you have some experience, you can get the “Advanced.”''5. Did you know that there are other organizations besides PADI?''Yes; although you have already seen that''PADI''has a huge presence worldwide, there are other organizations, like''SSI''or''NAUI'', offering certifications.''6. Relax.''At first, it feels strange to breathe underwater. The first few times it’s normal to feel a bit overwhelmed and like you want to get out of the water. But why do you want to get out? To breathe? You have a regulator with air in your mouth. You don’t need to get out. Just relax.''7. Listen to your instructor.''During the first few days, your instructor will be almost the most important person in your life. Pay attention to him/her and everything will be all right.''8. Check your gear before every dive.''You must always follow this basic routine. Check all your gear (and your buddy’s). Be sure that no gear is leaking, that the tank is full and that everything works fine.''9. Take care of your partner.''If you are learning in a group or with a buddy, ask your partners if they are OK during your dives. They will take care of you, too. Don’t dive alone!''10. Try to go in small groups.''Although diving in a group can give you some security, the truth is that a big group can be difficult for the instructor to manage. Try to go in a six- to eight-person group at a maximum.''11. Drink lots of water.''Our bodies lose a lot of water when we dive. Therefore, it’s very important that we drink plenty of water before and after every dive.''12. Take dizziness pills if you need them.''Often, diving involves a boat trip. Sometimes the boat moves too much and some people get dizzy. Take pills if you think this might happen to you. Although vomiting underwater is entirely possible, it’s not exactly a fun experience.''13. Never hold your breath.''For some who have snorkeled a lot, holding your breath may seem natural. However, when scuba diving, rule number one is: Never hold your breath!''14. Breathe slowly.''Breathing slowly will help you relax, control your buoyancy and save air (making your dives longer). Once I was told that you should take in air as if it were an excellent wine rather than a cold beer on a hot day. You can use your tongue to help you take in less air. There are different tricks, but breathe slowly and constantly.''15. Avoid panic underwater.''Many accidents are the result of panic. When we panic and don’t know what to do, we usually make bad decisions. No matter what happens, relax, close your eyes if necessary, breathe and think. Remember what you’ve learned and resolve the problem.''16. Keep a calm rhythm.''Diving is not a race. It’s not about going faster than the others. Move slowly. You will save energy and air, and you will enjoy the environment much more. When ascending, never go up faster than your bubbles do!''17. Don’t drink alcohol the day before.''Alcohol dehydrates your body and hangovers are not pleasant on boat trips.''18. Be aware of the risks.''Study the possible risks and the symptoms of nitrogen narcosis and other problems.''19. Don’t take a flight after diving.''If you are flying, wait 18 hours before getting on a plane. Take special care if you’ve been diving for several days and completing successive dives a day.''20. Don’t take anything from the sea.''Please, we must take care of that precious ecosystem. Do not take coral, shells or other organisms. You can pick up the trash you find. That’s cool! 🙂''21. Beware of marine wildlife.''Don’t worry too much about sharks, as they usually keep a distance. If you see one, relax and do as your instructor says. On the other hand, there are many poisonous fish. Keep your distance. Look but don’t touch.''22. Keep your dive logbook updated.''Keep your dives up to date. Write down the dive site, diving time, air consumption, etc. This way you can see your progress.''Choose the right gear!''23. Dive mask.''To determine whether a dive mask fits you: Place the mask against your face, look down and inhale through your nose. Now let go; the mask should stay in position. If it falls, it is too big.''Choose the right dive mask''24. Diving suit.''When choosing a suit, keep in mind that it must be a little tight but comfortable.''Choose the right wetsuit''25. Regulator.''There is a great array of regulators from which to choose depending on the type of diving you will be doing. Some are better for cold water and some are better for warm water. Others are balanced or unbalanced, etc.''Choose the right regulator''26. Diving fins.''You can find many models and prices. If you are using open heel fins, I recommend that you wear booties.''Choose the right fins''27. Scuba BCD.''You can choose between jacket, back inflation BCDS or hybrid models.''Choose the right BCD''28. Dive computer.''In the beginning, you’ll have enough to do worrying about buoyancy and air consumption. However, a dive computer can be a great asset when you have some experience.''Choose the right dive computer''29. Other accessories.''Depending on your level and the type of dive, many useful accessories are available, like''dive lights'',''underwater cameras''and''dive knifes''.''30. Take care of your gear.''Remember to clean all your gear with fresh water after each dive and keep it away from the sun. This will extend the life of your gear.''Get started now!''Do you have any other scuba diving tips? Please, leave a comment!''Ecuador offers a''spectacular variety of landscapes''in a very small territory. You can find bustling\xa0beaches, tropical forests, active volcanoes, colonial cities, traditional markets and even the famous Galapagos Islands.''It’s a country of contrasts, with a strong Andean culture. In some rural areas, people still make beautiful hats, buy food in colorful markets, wear traditional dresses and speak Quichua.''Mountains rise over the horizon, kids smile at you and huge volcanoes show green lagoons and smoking craters … Welcome to Ecuador!!!''The best things to do while backpacking Ecuador''1. VISIT THE CITY OF QUITO''The beautiful''city\xa0of Quito''embodies\xa0the essence of the country. Markets, colorful streets, colonial churches and cathedrals are found along a valley surrounded by active volcanoes. Do not miss the climb to Rucu Pichincha so you can\xa0enjoy the best views of the city, with the great Cotopaxi in the background.''2. CLIMB ILINIZA NORTE''Complete the''two-day hike up to the Iliniza Norte'', at 5,126 meters high. This route is perfect as acclimatization for the climb to the Cotopaxi volcano; at dawn it\xa0offers great views of the nearby mountains.''3. VISIT COTOPAXI NATIONAL PARK''Go up to the Refuge at 4,800 meters and visit this legendary perfect cone volcano. The more adventurous can''climb to the summit of Cotopaxi''(almost 6,000 meters), which is completed in two days. The experience and the views are priceless!''4. TAKE THE QUILOTOA LOOP''The''Quilotoa loop trek''has become one of the most popular hikes among backpackers. The route takes you through villages and rural areas before you reach the crater of a volcano where a large green lagoon formed.''The best part of this experience is the contact with the local people, who are very friendly. You can sleep in small mountain lodges and eat cuy or other homemade specialties.''5. VISIT BAÑOS''The city of Baños, known as the gateway to the Amazonian region, offers\xa0a wide range of adventure activities. Domintaed by the great Tungurahua volcano, Baños and its lush mountains offer bungee jumping, zip lines, rafting, canyoning and much more.''I recommend that you rent a bike and explore the surroundings, visit waterfalls and get lost in the woods!''6. VISIT CUENCA''Cuenca has been\xa0a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1999, with amazing\xa0architecture and 52 beautiful churches scattered throughout the streets. They built one for every Sunday of the year!''Although the streets are full of colonial history, this was one of the largest pre-Hispanic settlements of the Incas. Cuenca Museum exhibits a wide variety of Inca and Cañari objects that you can admire.''The city of Cuenca. Photo by''MM''. flickr''7. PUERTO LOPEZ''Visit the tropical coast of Ecuador to spot the huge humpback whales. With a little luck you will see how some of the big ones jump over the water! Whale season in Puerto Lopez runs from June to September.''8. THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS''The famous islands of Darwin’s theory of evolution are a dream destination for biologists, travelers, divers and nature lovers.''Keep in mind that it’s not a cheap destination since you can get there only by plane and you have to pay an expensive conservation fee. There are local boats between some islands that may be an alternative to the expensive cruises.''Islas Galapagos. photo by''Paul Krawczuk''. flickr''Travel budget for backpacking Ecuador''In general, you can visit the country for less than $ 15 per day, but if you take\xa0any tour or hike to the mountains, the budget may increase\xa0up to $ 25 per day.''PLAN YOUR TRIP TO ECUADOR''ACCOMMODATION''Most hostels will cost you''5$-10$''for a single, double or dormitory.''These are some options that I loved:''Quito:''Discovery Quito''. Simple, economic and well located.''Baños:''Great Hostels''. Great common areas, breakfast and views.''Cuenca:''Hotel Check In''. Affordable single, double rooms and dorms.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. You can get now''$35 of Airbnb credit''if you sign up through my link!''FLYING TO AND WITHIN ECUADOR''I use''Skyscanner''to find the best prices, comparing dates, airlines and promos. If you want to save some money, you can download the''free App now''.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''If you are traveling in Ecuador, even on a short trip, I highly recommend that you get a good travel insurance. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options.''FOOD''It’s pretty easy to find breakfast and lunch menus for around $ 1 – $ 2.50 in local restaurants.''The guinea pig or “cuy” is a typical specialty of the country and it’s pretty good!''WEATHER. BACKPACKING ECUADOR''It is possible to travel the country at any time of the year. From June to September and November to February are the best seasons for the mountain.''If you plan to travel to the Amazon, keep in mind that the heaviest rainy season runs from December to March.''TRAVEL TIPS FOR BACKPACKING ECUADOR''ACCLIMATIZATION''If you are thinking about\xa0climbing a volcano like''Iliniza Norte''or''Cotopaxi'', you should plan a good acclimatization program that may take several days or even weeks.''PACIFIC COAST''Visiting Puerto Lopez during the whale season can be very interesting, but in my opinion Ecuador is not a country of great beaches. I personally wouldn’t devote much time to the coast.''BUY A LOCAL HAT''The famous white Panama hats are actually from Ecuador! The original ones were first tailored here and Panama copied them later. You can find a variety of these stylish hats in many shops all over Ecuador.''Next Read:''Hiking Las Torres del Paine in Chile''Do you have any question about Backpacking Ecuador? Please conctact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Are you packing for your next hike and not sure what you need? Don’t worry! After many\xa0people asked me what gear they should bring along on their hikes, I thought it would be a good idea to create a list of\xa0what I consider to be the most important hiking gear for both one-day hikes and multi-day hikes.''This is a very extensive packing list, but it doesn’t mean that you need to carry everything. Some items are extras that might be helpful in some situations, but are not absolutely necessary.''For one-day hikes I’d check out the “''Clothing and Backpacking list''” and bring the necessary gear according to the weather and temperature. If you are planning a multi-day hike, also check out the “''Camping gear list''“, which conteins\xa0some very useful overnight gear.''CLOTHING AND BACKPACKING. BEST HIKING GEAR LIST''North Face Khumbu Jacket''Something really essential for\xa0practically all your hikes, as it is perfect for one-day hikes or multi-day hikes. I like this jacket because you can use it in any situation.''Columbia Raincoat''You are going to need a good raincoat if the weather gets a bit ugly. This\xa0Columbia raincoat is absolutely waterproof and windproof. For years, I have brought mine to all my hikes and it still withstands the worst weather conditions.''Columbia Convertible Trekking Pants''Very practical and comfortable pants for summer or spring hikes. They are light and breathable and have a zipper that makes\xa0them short or long depending on the situation.''Check out the Top 10 Best Hiking Pants''White Sierra Waterproof Pants''These are the pants I wear for winter or very high hikes, like that time I climbed the''Cotopaxi volcano in Ecuador''. They are light and comfortable but very\xa0warm and totally waterproof. I’d bring these pants only to pretty cold hikes; otherwise they can be too warm.''Champion Long sleeved shirt''I always bring at least two\xa0short or long-sleeved t shirts to all my hikes depending on the weather. They are super light and something you’ll be glad to have brought with you when you end up sweating like crazy.''Mountain Hardwear T-shirt''Short-sleeved shirts are great because you can wear them during your hikes or make them part of your everyday clothing.''Carhartt Wetzl Winter hat''I’m sure your mum has already told you that you loose a considerable percentage of heat from your head, right? Well, maybe it’s more like a myth than something true but keeping your head warm during cold hikes will make you feel much better.''Delicol Bandana''I personally wear a bandana only when it gets very windy or cold but some people with delicate throats find it something essential.''Salomon Hiking Boots''Keeping your feet dry and comfortable is perhaps\xa0the most important thing when completing a multi-day hike. You don’t want to get blisters or wounds on the second day and have to go back before you planned, right? These Salomon boots are some of the best I have ever used.''Pro-Tect Hiking Socks''Wearing great hiking boots with bad-quality socks will be of no use. Good socks will also prevent those blisters and wounds.''Mountain Made Hiking Gloves''I mainly use these for high routes or very cold hikes, but you can use them for any other outdoor activity like riding, cycling or everyday use.''Osprey Aether 70 Backpack''I think I’ve had like six different backpacks during my last five years of travel, and I must say; this Osprey Aether 70 is just perfect for a long-term traveler. It’s a top-quality backpack with a large capacity, adjustable suspension and great comfort and durability.''Check out the Top 11 Best Backpacks for Travel''Osprey Exos 48''However, if you need a lightweight backpack\xa0only for hiking,\xa0the Osprey Exos 48 is one of the''best ultralight backpacks''on the market. I love this one!''CAMPING. BEST HIKING GEAR LIST''Marmot Limelight 2 Tent''Very lightweight and durable, this is a 3 season tent you can use in almost any situation. I have tested it myself in heavy rains and snowfall and it has always resisted with no problems. It’s a good tent for one or two people as it has a generous 32-square-foot interior with a nine square foot vestibule for gear storage.''Check out the Top 11 Tents for Traveling''Kelty Cosmic 20 Winter Sleeping bag''This sleeping bag is probably the item on the list that I love the most. It’s a great companion that will keep you warm on freezing nights in the mountain. It can withstand very low temperatures but you can also use it as your 3 season sleeping bag.''Check out the Top 11 Sleeping Bags''Camtoa Summer Sleeping bag''The Kelty 20 is good for autumn, winter and spring hikes, but it could be too hot for use during the summer. For those treks, I bring my super light and compact Camtoa sleeping bag, which is actually pretty cheap.''Therm-a-Rest Sleeping pad''Having a good sleeping pad is very important for\xa0proper rest after a long day of hiking. There are very expensive ones, but I think this Therm-a-Rest is a good value for the money.''Check out the Top 11 Sleeping Pads''Petzl 80 lumens Headlamp''Indispensable for any hiker, this lamp allows you to cook, read or do whatever you need to do when it’s dark.''MSR Windburner Stove''I really like this MSR stove because it allows you to cook even in windy conditions, which happens pretty often when hiking.''Tapirus Eating Utensils''Just more\xa0practical hiking gear that might help you pack lighter.''Aquamira Water Treatment''These drops can be very helpful. Planning a trip to Africa, Asia or South America? Sometimes you are not sure about the water you are about to drink and these drops will kill all the bacteria, making the water potable.''Ultra-Light First-Aid Kit''A good kit to bring to multi-day hikes in case something happens.''Victorinox Swiss Knife''You don’t need to bring Rambo’s knife to the mountain; a simple and light Swiss knife will be enough.''EXTRA ITEMS. BEST HIKING GEAR LIST''Sony RX 100V''While I use a''Nikon 500''for most of my travels and day hikes, sometimes I don’t want to carry a big, heavy camera for six or seven days. The Sony RX 100 V is the perfect camera for hiking.''Check out the Top 10 Best Cameras for Hiking''Hiker Hunger Poles''Some people use them, some people don’t. I’m not a big fan of hiking poles myself, though I admit that they can be very helpful sometimes.''Garmin Fenix 3 Hiking watch''It’s not essential, but it’s definitely a great help when hiking. This modern and stylish watch is equipped with an altimeter, barometer, thermometer, digital compass,''GPS''and many other features.''Check out''the''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches''Julbo Bibouak Sunglasses''I like the design and protection of these polarized Julbo! Awesome sunglasses for hiking!''Check out''the''Top 10 Hiking Sunglasses''Waterproof matches''These matches can be pretty helpful on those hikes when it’s raining cats and dogs and everything gets wet.''Lifestraw''Check out the Best Water Purifiers for Hiking''Repel Insect repellent''Always try to get a repellent of\xa0at least 30 to 40% DEET for maximum protection. This is especially important for hikes in Africa, Asia or South America, where some mosquito bites can bring diseases.''Ipod Nano''Some people like to listen to music while hiking. Personally, I like to do it at the end of the day, when I’m laying down and feeling warm inside my sleeping bag… then I play Eddie Vedder!''That’s all! I hope this''hiking gear list''has helped you find what you are looking for!''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''Enjoy this fantastic''Hiking and Camping Gear Guide by National Geographic''!''Do you have any question about Best Hiking Gear List? Please, contact me!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''Best Backpacking Gear List: Stuff I like''Top 10 Ultralight Backpacks 2018''Top 11 Best Tents for Backpacking and Camping 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''After visiting''the impressive Mayan city of Tikal'', we headed to Izabal, one of the most wild and exotic regions of Guatemala. The best-known spots in this area\xa0are the famous Rio Dulce and the Afro-Caribbean town of Livingston. Both of them are really worth a visit.''If you take the boat from Rio Dulce you can visit the “Castillo de San Felipe de Lara”, a fort built by the Spanish to stop pirates coming from the Caribbean when this area was a strategic trade center for Central America.''Castillo de San Felipe de Lara''THE BEST OF RIO DULCE: THE CANYON''The most spectacular part of the river is the Río Dulce canyon, with huge cliffs emerging on both sides of the shore. This beautiful canyon is surrounded by the thick jungle, the sound of wild animals, all kinds of birds and small villages scattered along the shore.''THINGS TO DO IN RIO DULCE''There is a great array of activities in Rio Dulce, like renting a kayak and visiting nearby villages or waterfalls, walking in the jungle, visiting the seven altars, visiting\xa0different lagoons to see manatees, swimming in the river or just relaxing in a hammock.''We rented some kayaks to visit the waterfalls of the Lampara River and it was great. I won’t lie, the waterfalls themselves were nothing special… but the spot, in the middle of the jungle, was truly spectacular. Getting there by kayak was also amazing. We entered a beautiful river and passed some villages where local kids approached the shore to say hello and play with us. This part of the river doesn’t get many tourists, so the residents were very nice.''Part of our kayaking tour''WHERE TO STAY IN RIO DULCE''Most of the lodges in Rio Dulce are located just before the canyon. They are basic but nice huts in the middle of the jungle. The idea is to stay a few days in a quiet bungalow without much luxury, but surrounded by pure nature.''We stayed at''El Hotelito Perdido'', 200 Quetzales a night for a hut for two people. There is a beautiful river just in front of the hotel where you can swim or simply lie in a hammock and relax. By the way, I was a bit paranoid, but they promised me there are no crocodiles in the river, so it’s safe to swim.''In the hotel they will help you organize different activities. You can also rent kayaks and hire guides for the jungle.''VISITING LIVINGSTON''If you come here to experience a wild and exotic part of the country you cannot miss the city of Livingston.''This is''the most unique\xa0city in all of\xa0Guatemala;''it’s like being in another country. Here you will find a mix of Garifuna, Maya and Afro-Caribbean people\xa0who create a city with unique flavor and culture.''The city is quite small, so it’s easy to walk around, visit small markets, take photos of the colorful houses or just relax in a park and enjoy the Caribbean breeze.''Getting to Livingston by boat''Local market in Livingston''THINGS TO DO IN LIVINGSTON''The city is right beyond\xa0the canyon, at the mouth of the Rio Dulce, so you can organize all of the above activities from Livingston. Moreover, you can take a cultural tour to taste local food and learn about the history of this unique\xa0people and their African origins.''WHERE TO STAY IN LIVINGSTON''Hotel Salvador Gaviota''We decided to stay in''the village of Quehueche''and enjoy a quiet Caribbean beach in the shade of palm trees.''We chose the''Hotel Salvador Gaviota''and it was a great experience, staying in a bungalow completely surrounded by jungle but just a few steps away from the sea. The place is very quiet and also offers a good breakfast and dinner.''PRACTICAL INFO WHEN VISITING RIO DULCE AND LIVINGSTON''Tourist boat''Rio Dulce – Livingston.''125 Q''1.5 hours''Boat''Livingston- Puerto Barrios.''35 Q''30 minutes''Bus''Puerto Barrios – Guatemala City.''120 Q''6 hours''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Guatemala. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you have any questions about Visiting Rio Dulce and Livingston? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Hidden in the lush rainforest of Guatemala is\xa0the wonderful site of Tikal, the ancient capital of one of the most powerful kingdoms of the Mayan civilization.''Declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco in 1979, Tikal is unique for its history, culture and exotic location. It is one of the Mayan ruins you cannot miss on your trip through Central America.''THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT TIKAL''History''The construction of the city of Tikal began in 600 B.C. and for the next 1,500 years it was an important scientific, political and religious center.''During its heyday, around the year 500 A.D., Tikal became the center of commerce and one of the most powerful cities in the Mayan world,''housing more than\xa060,000 people''under the rule of various\xa0governors over a period of 800 years.''For reasons still unknown, the city began its decline around 870 A.D. before being completely abandoned about the year 900 A.D.''Tikal is a huge archeological site and most of its ruins are still covered by the thick jungle. The complex has''more than 3,000 structures''such as homes, temples, altars and terraces, although only a part of this is visible.''THE MOST IMPORTANT TEMPLES TO VISIT IN TIKAL''1. Temple I or Temple of the Great Jaguar''Although this is not the tallest building\xa0with a height of 44 meters, it\xa0is the most famous of all the temples of Tikal and is the\xa0classic image\xa0you have seen of the ruins. It is located in the main square, next to other spectacular structures.''2. Temple II or Temple of the Masks''Also located in the main square with a height of 37 meters, this is a beautiful temple that you can climb for\xa0spectacular views of the surroundings, the main square and the great Temple I.''View from Temple of the Masks''3. Temple IV or Temple of the Two-Headed Snake''This is the tallest\xa0temple in the complex with a height of 70 meters. A large\xa0part of the structure is still under excavation, but there are stairs to access the top and enjoy the best views of the site.''View from Temple IV''4. Maler’s Palace''This palace next to the main square is an interesting structure with different levels, steps and tunnels that you can explore without the presence of many tourists.''WHERE TO CLIMB AND ENJOY TIKAL AT SUNSET''There are several places where you can\xa0enjoy a beautiful sunset in Tikal. I personally loved to''climb Temple IV''to admire other temples rising over the jungle. This place is spectacular at dusk, with orange colors over the clouds and the forest and the sound of thousands of wild animals around.''Check out the''Ultimate Guide to Tikal National Park''TIPS AND THINGS TO CONSIDER WHEN VISITING TIKAL''1.''Only 10% of the ruins are accessible,''as\xa0the rest are still buried in the jungle, but be prepared to walk all day because the place is huge!''2.''The distances between some temples can take 10 or 20 minutes''to cross and the heat and humidity are ridiculous, so bring plenty of water.''3.''There are no ATMs in Tikal'', so bring all the money you need from Flores.''4. If you want to climb temples to watch the sun set,''you may have to pay a little bribe''to the guards. Yes, absolute corruption!''BUDGET FOR VISITING TIKAL''ENTRANCE FEE''The admission fee to the National Park is 150 Q'', which is about 20 euros or so. The ticket can be purchased at the park entrance.''HOW TO GET TO TIKAL''There are some minibuses leaving from Flores with different schedules, so you can go in the morning if you want to and return just after sunset.''The price is about 75 Q return''and the ride takes an hour and a half.''WHERE TO STAY WHEN VISITING TIKAL AT SUNSET''Most visitors stay in Flores, El Remate or some lodges situated inside the national park.''Hotel Los Estudiantes''Personally,''I loved the small island of Flores'', with its Caribbean colonial architecture and relaxed atmosphere.''There are plenty of restaurants and places where you can relax and enjoy the scenery of the lake surrounding the little island.''Flores also has a great range of hotels and hostels. I stayed at''Hotel Los Estudiantes''and I can recommend it as one of the best options. It’s a very nice place, with a small courtyard with flowers. Its rooms are clean and it’s a good value for the money.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''If you are traveling to Guatemala, I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you have any questions about How to visit and Enjoy Tikal at sunset? Please, contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''If you have some doubts about what exactly you need to go diving, what gear is\xa0more essential and how much you will spend on it, you have come to the right place.''After testing and reviewing lots of products, I thought it would be a good idea to create a list of''the best scuba diving equipment''to help people make the right choice when buying.''The Best Scuba Diving Gear List. Essential gear''SCUBA MASK''The''Atomic Aquatics Venom''provides a comfortable face seal and wide panoramic view in a frameless single-less design.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Scuba Masks''BCD''The''Zeagle Ranger''is one of the most popular BCDs among divers. The Ranger can adapt to warm and cold water, carrying single or twin cylinders. It’s a great piece of gear for both recreational and tech divers.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Best Scuba BCDs''REGULATOR''The''Atomic T3 Titanium''has an ultralight and durable titanium construction, as well as\xa0the best performance for technical dives and extreme depths.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Diving Regulators''DIVE WETSUIT''The''Bare Velocity''is a comfortable, durable and resistant wetsuit. It’s easy to put on and take off, and provides a good tight seal. There are different thicknesses available.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Dive Wetsuits''SCUBA DIVING FINS''The''Atomic Aquatics Split''has a great water performance, providing great propulsion with less effort and helping you save energy and air.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Best Scuba Fins''DIVE COMPUTER''The''Scubapro Mantis 2''is a stylish, compact and reliable dive computer. It’s easy to read, comes with an air integration system and provides biometrics data.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Dive Computers''The Best Scuba Diving Gear List. Accessories''DIVE CAMERA''The''Olympus OM-D-E-M5 Mark II''takes stunning underwater photos. When it comes to cameras, there are some really expensive options, but I think the Olympus M5 has the best quality/price balance.\xa0Then you will need a good housing like the next model by Ikelite.''Check price on Amazon''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Best Dive Cameras''DIVE KNIVES''The''Atomic Aquatics Ti6''is an ultralight titanium knife with spectacular performance. It features both serrated and straight blades.''Check price on Amazon''Other models:''Top 10 Scuba Knives''DIVE LIGHTS''The''Light & Motion Sola 800''is a very versatile dive torch that provides two functions: wide and narrow beams, all in a super compact and ultralight design.''Other models:''Top 10 Best Dive Lights''Best Snorkeling Gear''Diving in Sipadan, Borneo''Check out this PADI article:''Scuba Gear for Technical Diving''Would you pin it? Thanks''Did you like the Best Scuba Diving Gear List? Please, leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Best BCDs for Scuba Diving. 2018 Ultimate B...''Top 10 Best Dive Lights Review 2018. Ultimate Buye...''Top 10 Best Dive Computers Review 2018. How to cho...''Best snorkeling gear Review 2018. How to Choose th...''If you liked this, please share it:''Snorkeling is undoubtedly one of the most exciting activities you can take part in\xa0while traveling. I remember the encounter I had in the Philippines with great whale sharks… and I wasn’t diving, just\xa0snorkeling!''Before we start with the reviews, I’d like to share a few tips on how to choose''the best snorkeling equipment'', so that you can avoid the classic mistakes.''Check out''other gear reviews to find the''best BCDs'',''regulators'',''fins''and''wetsuits!''How to choose the Best Snorkeling Gear:''Mask''The mask is basically the most important component\xa0of the gear. You need a mask that fits well and doesn’t fog up. That said, most masks tend to get foggy when they are new as a result of the manufacturing process. There are some tricks to get rid of that, like burning the inside of the glass using a lighter for a few seconds or scrubbing some toothpaste on the mask.''If you want to determinate\xa0how the mask fits, it is good practice to put on the mask and inhale to create a seal on your face. Then, put down your hand. The mask should stay on your face thanks to the seal as long as you keep inhaling.''Snorkel''The snorkel must be comfortable: you shouldn’t feel like the snorkel is pulling at your mouth. Mouthpieces made of silicon tend to be more comfortable.''There are some other features that can help you. A purge valve will very efficiently get rid of any\xa0water that enters\xa0the snorkel.''Whether to choose\xa0an open tube, dry or semi-dry snorkel is usually one of the main considerations before buying.''If you like to swim in rough water, it would be a good idea to get a dry or semi-dry one, which prevents water from getting into the snorkel. If you like to dive down frequently, a dry snorkel would be your best option.''Fins''There are different models, but I personally prefer half-size fins, as they are easy to pack and are perfect for long-term travel.''Best Snorkel Gear Review''Best Snorkeling Gear of 2018''This list of the best snorkel gear is based on my own experience using some of these products, as well as the reviews from other divers.''CRESSI LIGHTWEIGHT PREMIUM SET''The''Cressi Lightweight''is one of the best sets on the market for snorkeling and diving. It is very light, durable and ergonomic. This set comes with a great mask, a dry snorkel and strap-on fins.''Pros:''Great quality, lightweight, good price.''Cons:''Fins are a bit long for long-term travels.''Recommended for:''Beginners, advanced snorkelers, divers.''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI REACTION EBS SET''The''Cressi Reaction EBS''set includes top-quality products like a frameless silicon mask, a dry snorkel and powerful fins.''Pros:''Quality, very good fins, best snorkel gear set on the list.''Cons:''It’s a bit expensive (but keep in mind it’s a top-quality product).''Recommended for:''Beginner and advanced snorkelers, divers.''Check price on Amazon''PHANTOM AQUATICS SPEED SPORT SET''The''Phantom Aquatics Speed Sport''set includes a great mask, a semi-dry top valve snorkel and short but strong fins.''Pros:''Very good value for money, best snorkel gear set\xa0for traveling, easy to pack.''Cons:''You don’t generate the same amount of force with short fins (not a big deal in my opinion unless you want to win a competition).''Recommended for:''Travelers, beginners and advanced snorkelers.''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI BIG EYES MASK SET''The''Cressi Big Eyes''set is your best option if you are looking for only a mask and snorkel. It has a double feathered edge skirt for a great seal on the face that fits most people. A good mask to complete the best snorkel gear.''Pros:''Excellent all-around visibility, strong and durable construction.''Cons:''There are cheaper masks available.''Recommended for:''Any kind of snorkeler and diver.''Check price on Amazon''OCTOMASK FOR GOPRO HERO''The''Octomask''is a great option for those who like to record all their submarine adventures. It comes with an easy-to-use system to fit the camera on the mask.''Pros:''You can place a GoPro and record your dives.''Recommended for:''Divers and snorkelers recording their dives.''Check price on Amazon''TRIBORD EASYBREATH FULL FACE MASK''Have you ever tried a Full Face Snorkel Mask? They are so much fun! You are going to love the''Tribord Easybreath''. You get a complete view of what’s around!''Pros:''Easy to breath.''Cons:''You can’t dive deep.''Recommended for:''Beginners.''Check out the''Best Full Face Snorkel Masks''Check price on Amazon''CRESSI PALAU SHORT FINS''The''Cressi Palau Short''are great fins for snorkeling. Short, soft and easy to pack, these fins are the best option for travelers who don’t want to carry a big backpack on their trips.''Pros:''Light and easy to pack for travels.''Cons:''They are not good for diving, only for snorkeling.''Recommended for:''Travelers, any kind of snorkelers.''Check price on Amazon''Some extra items to complete the best snorkeling gear:''GOPRO HERO 4\xa0BLACK''The''GoPro Hero 4 Black''is one of the best cameras you can bring along to record all your dives. It features 1080p professional video, 12 MP photos, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.''Check price on Amazon''DARKFIN GLOVES''Darkfin Gloves''. You can increase your hand surface by 70% and swim much faster by using these great gloves.''Check price on Amazon''ASCENT WATERPROOF BAG AND TOWEL''Ascent Waterproof bag''. Keep yourself and all your stuff dry with this bag and towel set.''Check price on Amazon''Located along a valley surrounded by giant volcanoes, the city of Quito offers an interesting fusion of Spanish colonialism, local culture and overwhelming nature. It’s no wonder that\xa0the Andean city attracts hundreds of photographers, hikers and visitors every year.''Situated at an altitude of 2,800 meters, Quito\xa0is the second-highest capital in the world and a place you should not miss on your way around this amazing country. Here you’ll find everything: huge cathedrals, colonial streets, modern shops, lively nightlife and''panoramic viewpoints''where you can get close to the sky.''Top 10 Best Things to do in Quito, Ecuador''1. STROLLING THE COLONIAL STREETS''The Spaniards created a beautiful colonial city and the Ecuadorians have been\xa0responsible for taking care of it. Quito\xa0is said to be one of the best-preserved ancient capitals in the Americas. Stroll through the colorful streets where you will find large squares and impressive churches and cathedrals.''2. CHURCH OF SANTO DOMINGO''Located in the historic center, Santo Domingo Square\xa0is one of the busiest places in the city, where tourists take pictures, artists create \xa0performances and “Quiteños” walk with the family. It is especially recommended that you visit the square in the evening, when artistic representations or exhibitions liven it up.''Santo Domingo Square''3. SAN FRANCISCO SQUARE''This spectacular square, where the church and monastery of San Francisco stand, is another lively part of the city that you should not miss. It’s a pretty touristy spot, with restaurants and dozens of street vendors. This huge “plaza” is a good place to stroll and admire the spectacular colonial architecture of the Church of San Francisco.''4. INDEPENDENCE SQUARE''A lovely square surrounded by cathedrals and government buildings, and … one of the few places in the world where you can greet the president of the country! Yes, that’s right: President Rafael Correa greets his people from the presidential balcony every Monday at 11 a.m.''5. THE CHURCH OF JESUS COMPANY''If you think the outside of this church is spectacular, you should pay the entrance fee to admire the fine work of the interior. There, all that glitters is gold!''6. LA MARISCAL''Not everything in Quito is colonial cathedrals and streets, is it? Visit the neighborhood of La Mariscal to find modern shops, animated bars, restaurants and lively nightlife. If you are planning to do some hiking, you’ll find lots of good shops equipped with top material in this area.''La Mariscal. photo by''La casa sol.''Creative Commons.''7. MITAD DEL MUNDO – HALF OF THE WORLD''As the name suggests, this country is located on the equator. Visit this monument where a line on the floor exactly defines this parallel, 13 kilometers north of Quito. It’s not an awesome place, but you can rest\xa0each foot in a different hemisphere and … well … that doesn’t happen every day.''8. HIKE THE RUCU PICHINCHA''The hike to the Rucu Pichincha volcano, at 4,784 meters, is a simple route that doesn’t require great physical condition or significant experience. If you are training for more serious mountains, it can be a good starter in your plan of acclimatization.''A\xa0cable car gets you to the first viewpoint; then you can walk for about 3 hours to reach the top. There, you’ll have a great view of the entire city with the great Cotopaxi volcano in the background.''9. COMPLETE A MORE ADVENTUROUS HIKE''Ecuador offers lots of top-rated mountain trails for all levels. Complete''the Quilotoa loop''around a beautiful lake formed in the crater of a volcano or tackle more serious adventures like''hiking North Iliniza''or climbing''the great Cotopaxi volcano''.''Climbing Cotopaxi''10. TRY SOME LOCAL FOOD''Would you like to try strange and exotic food? I don’t know if you ever had a “cuy” or guinea pig as a pet, but in Ecuador, it’s one of the typical dishes you can taste. Although it took me a while to decide (as I actually did have a few of those as pets), I have to admit it’s delicious.''TIPS DURING YOUR STAY. BEST THINGS TO DO IN QUITO''SECURITY''Quito is not a dangerous city, but as with\xa0most large cities, you must take some care. Avoid walking through the historic center at night. The neighborhood of La Mariscal is quite safe in general.''The city tram is fast and efficient, but you can really get like sardines in a can at peak times. This is a\xa0favorite moment for pickpockets, so keep an eye on your belongings.''TAXIS''Always negotiate the price of the taxi before taking one, as most of them don’t want to set the taximeter at the start of the journey and may overcharge you.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the country. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Backpacking Ecuador\xa0on a budget''Did you like The best things to do in Quito Ecuador? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''How to Climb Iliniza Norte: All you need to know''Climbing Cotopaxi volcano on a budget. Trekking Ec...''If you liked this, please share it:''Do you know the James Bond movie where the bad guys are hidden under the lake of a volcanic crater? No, it’s not “Goldeneye”… it’s “You Only Live Twice”. Anyway, that place looks like something out of a Hollywood movie but if you go to Ecuador you’ll see it’s real.''Hiking the Quilotoa loop is one of the most rewarding things you can do on your''visit to Ecuador''. This loop can be a good part of your acclimatization plan before''trekking Iliniza Norte''or before attempting something more serious like a''climb to the Cotopaxi volcano''. In addition, you will be encountering\xa0small villages, visiting colorful markets, enjoying a surreal lagoon and getting lost a couple of times along the way, which usually makes for\xa0some good adventures.''Most people hike the Quilotoa loop starting directly from the lagoon, which I think doesn’t make much sense. Call me a purist if you want, but I think the point of a hike is getting\xa0to the highlight at the end, enjoying the place and the feeling that you are being\xa0rewarded for all your\xa0effort.''Therefore, the route I recommend starts at\xa0Sigchos, goes through Isinliví and Guayama, and ends at the Quilotoa lake. There are different routes depending on whether you want to visit other markets or villages. If you have the time you can make the Quilotoa loop much longer.''Route details''Total distance: 30 km approx. (Sigchos – Guayama – Quilotoa)''Time: 3 days''Difficulty: Medium''Maximum Elevation: 3,810 meters''Itinerary''Day 1: Latacunga – Saquisilí market – Sigchos -Isinliví''Day 2: Isinliví – Guayama''Day 3: Guayama – Quilotoa – Latacunga''Map''Best route for hiking the Quilotoa loop''Day 1: Latacunga – Saquisilí market – Sigchos -Isinliví''Most of the villages in the area hold a market once a week. We were about to start our trek when there\xa0was a Thursday market in Saquisilí, so we didn’t want to miss that. The market of Saquisilí is colorful, lively and a bit chaotic. It’s a good place to admire fabrics, hats and the clothing of the local culture in general. The animal market is very authentic, with a large guinea pig section (Yes, in Ecuador they are not pets; they go straight into the pot).''From Saquisilí we got a bus to Sigchos. When\xa0we arrived in Sigchos it was a bit late and getting dark so we hitchhiked and got a lift to Isinliví. When we got to Isinliví we barely had time to find a place to camp on the outskirts of the village before sunset.''Day 2: Isinliví – Guayama. 8 hours of trekking''This is the toughest day of the hike. It’s a long way uphill and downhill along some beautiful valleys and cliffs. It’s not a busy route but you can meet some travelers, farmers and children grazing their sheep near small villages.''Sometimes the route is not well marked, so it’s pretty easy to get lost. It’s not a big deal, though; most of the time you’ll realize within a few minutes that you have taken the wrong way. I recommend finding someone to ask for directions to be sure you are on the right path.''Day 3: Guayama – Quilotoa – Latacunga. 6 hours of trekking''From Guayama there is a shortcut to get to the Quilotoa crater in about two hours. Once there, take your time to enjoy amazing views and take some pictures. You have to\xa0walk around\xa0the crater to get access down to the lake. The way down to the lagoon is steep and dusty but well worth it. Now that we have gotten\xa0to the crater, we are not going to give up being so close to the end, are we?''Budget for hiking the Quilotoa loop''We brought our own food and tent, so we spent only about $20, including transportation from Quito and food for 3 days.''ACCOMMODATION''There are several hostels and hotels in Sigchos, Isinliví and Guayama with prices starting at about $ 5.''FOOD''You’ll find a few small stores in every village. Also,\xa0most of the hostels serve breakfast and dinner (though it’s usually not included in the price).''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO THE QUILOTOA LAGOON''Bus Quito (Quitumbe terminal) – Latacunga: $ 1.50''Bus Latacunga – Siquisilí: $ 0.75''Bus Siquisilí – Sigchos: $ 2''Bus Quilotoa- Latacunga: $ 2''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Ecuador. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''WEATHER. WHEN TO HIKE THE QUILOTOA LOOP''Although this route can be completed any time of the year, the best seasons are from June to September and from November to February.''TIPS FOR HIKING THE QUILOTOA LOOP''BEST CAMPING SPOT''Accommodation in Isinliví seemed a bit expensive to us since there is not much competition. Luckily, there is a very nice viewpoint a bit outside of town where you can camp for free in front of an impressive ravine. It’s close to something that looks like an open chapel.''That’s the place!''BRING WARM CLOTHES''Nights above 2,000 meters can be quite cold. Bring enough warm clothing such as gloves, a hat, long pants, a jacket, etc.''COMPLETE THE ROUTE IN REVERSE ORDER''Although I recommend starting the hike from Sigchos, I must say that starting from the Quilotoa lagoon and doing the route in reverse is physically easier since you start from the highest point of the hike.''Next Read:''Hiking the Huayhuash Circuit in Peru''Do you have any question about Best route for hiking the Quilotoa loop? Please, contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hike to La Soufriere volcano in Saint Vincent''How to Hike the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek f...''Climbing Cotopaxi volcano on a budget. Trekking Ec...''If you liked this, please share it:''For decades, paragliding has been one of the most popular''activities in Pokhara''. A\xa0professional competition is even held there every year, since the city boasts that it is\xa0one of the best places in the world for these flights.''Pokhara has the perfect conditions for an exciting and safe experience, a good take-off area like Sarangkot, stunning views of the Himalayas, stable thermals and a convenient area for landing.''PRICES AND COMPANIES FOR PARAGLIDING IN POKHARA''Most paragliding companies have similar prices; there may be small differences or offers, but most of the time you will\xa0pay about the same price. Some companies have Nepalese pilots while\xa0others have foreign pilots; some have older gear, some newer gear. Visit a few companies and choose the one that best fits your needs.''If you book your flight through a hotel or other travel agency, it’ll be more expensive since they are obviously going to take a\xa0commission. You better book your flight\xa0straight through\xa0the company.''Tandem flights:''$80 US per 30 minutes / $130 US per 60 minutes.''Solo flights:''If you’re qualified, you can fly on your own. Ask for permission at the aviation office of Pokhara; they will allow you to make your own flights for about $70 US.''HOW IS THE EXPERIENCE? WHAT ABOUT SAFETY?''Almost all companies offer the same program, consisting of picking you up at your hotel, signing some documents relating to safety, driving 30 minutes to Sarangkot, checking all safety elements and flying for 25 -30 minutes over Lake Phewa. These flights reach an\xa0altitude of between 2,500 – 3,400 meters, offering awesome views.''These companies know their stuff and comply with the necessary security measures. However, as\xa0in any extreme sport, there is always a risk. Don’t worry; everything will\xa0be alright; just make sure your company has good insurance before booking your flight and that’s it.''TANDEM PARAGLIDING AND COURSES''Tandem:''Most people who paraglide in Pokhara choose a tandem flight. This means you are not flying by yourself; a paragliding pilot is flying with you, so you don’t need to worry about anything except\xa0enjoying the scenery.''Courses:''If you’re looking for a course so that you can fly on your own, several schools can\xa0train you.''The entire course usually consists of 3 small classes: the beginner course, the progression course and the thermaling course. Each of these classes is completed in 5 days and will teach\xa0you theory (equipment, weather conditions, security, etc.) and practice. If you don’t have time, you can complete some parts of these courses and pay by day.''The total 15-day course (consisting of the 3 small courses) costs about $2,000 US and you will get an international license when you are finished.''WHEN TO GO PARAGLIDING IN POKHARA AND THE BEST TIME OF DAY''The best\xa0seasons for paragliding''are spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November). These are also the best seasons for hiking in Nepal, as\xa0you’ll avoid\xa0the heavy monsoon rains and cold winter.''Ultimately, however,\xa0paragliding can be done any day of the year as long as the weather conditions are appropriate.''Best time of day:''Flights are operated 3 times a day: around 10:00 a.m., at 12:00 noon, and at 14:00 p.m.''The first flight of the day is usually pretty calm since the necessary thermal hasn’t formed yet. After 12:00, the sun has warmed up the land and the flights are more turbulent, but also more exciting.''TIPS''In addition to the incredible experience of paragliding in Pokhara, don’t\xa0miss a''hike into the Annapurna Range''.''RECOMMENDED COMPANIES''These are some of the paragliding companies with more experience in Pokhara:''Aviaclub Nepal''Frontiers paragliding''Sunrise paragliding''Blue sky paragliding''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''I loved this place in Pokhara:''Pushkar Backpackers.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Nepal. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you need a guidebook?''Get the''Lonely Planet Nepal''Do you have any question about Paragliding in Pokhara? Leave a comment!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es. There are other affiliate links in the post too.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Annapurna base camp trek: Step by step guide''If you liked this, please share it:''Finally, the big\xa0day arrived and we were ready. My friend Jabi and I were about to face\xa0our biggest mountain challenge ever: climbing the Cotopaxi volcano, nearly 6,000 meters high.''After hiking Rucu Pichinca and''North Iliniza''as part of our acclimatization, we were full of energy and motivation. Actually, we had spent a few months between Colombia and''Ecuador''completing several hiking routes, so our\xa0bodies seemed ready.''Cotopaxi is an active stratovolcano with a perfect conical shape. It\xa0has become one of the biggest tourist attractions in the country. While most visitors don’t climb beyond the shelter, a few venture into the frozen summit.''Ready for the climb!''It doesn’t look that scary.. does it?''Trail details''Total distance: 3.8 km from the shelter to the top''Time: 2 days''Difficulty: Hard''Maximum Elevation: 5,897 meters''Map''Let’s climb''Instead of booking this tour with an agency, we decided to go on our own. Obviously, we got a guide to come with us, we were\xa0a little stingy and didn’t want\xa0to spend much money, but the two of us\xa0weren’t crazy enough to do it alone, as though we were taking\xa0a walk in the park. The climb to the summit is a battle against the height, the darkness of the night and the freezing\xa0wind.''Despite what tourist agencies say in their eagerness to sell more tours to the mountain, the climb is not as easy as it sounds. I’m not saying it is technically difficult, but it’s a six hour climb spent dodging cracks in the ice while the darkness of the night doesn’t let you see the path ahead of you. You feel cold, fatigue and a lack of oxygen, and every step is harder than the previous one.''The first 3 hours of the climb were, let’s say, easy. We still had lots of energy and motivation. From the fourth hour on, the freezing wind and lack of oxygen began to take their toll. Rest breaks lasted not minutes but seconds, but still helped us recover some energy. The final climb, the last hour, was pretty tough. The higher\xa0the sun rose, the more we felt the weight of the mountain on us. One step more, one step more, we’re almost there!''Despite the exhaustion, we celebrated the conquest of the mountain with joy, excitement and stunning views. The few of us who managed to hit the summit (more than half of the people\xa0turned back due to\xa0fatigue or altitude sickness) congratulated each other with hugs, smiles and tears.''After a few photos on the top, Jabi and I (and our frosty mustaches) started the descent. We couldn’t waste much time, as the morning sun had begun to open some cracks in the ice and it could be dangerous. The descent had to be quick.''Finally, we got back to the shelter, had a cup of tea and were ready to return to Quito. I have to admit that I had never been\xa0so tired in my life… but there we were, happy and proud!''Cotopaxi summit at sunrise''Exhausted but happy!''The only people who made it up to the summit''Starting the descent''Climbing Cotopaxi volcano program''This climb is done in two days. The first day you get up to the Jose Ribas shelter, located at 4,800 meters, and sleep there. Cars can drive only up to the Cotopaxi parking area; from there you walk one hour to the shelter.''You can have dinner at the shelter and sleep a few hours. You start climbing at 3:00 am, using your headlamps. The climb usually takes between 5 and 7 hours. In our case, it took us six hours to get to the top.''After hitting the summit, you take\xa0the same path down to the shelter; this lasts about 3 hours.''Check out''the''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches''Budget for climbing Cotopaxi volcano in Ecuador. How much does it cost?''We managed to climb the volcano for $130 per person total. This included the guide ($65 per day divided between 2 people) + equipment rental ($30 for boots, crampons, an ice ax, and a helmet) + Jose Ribas shelter ($10 for camping) + transport (bus + $ 25 Jeep).''The agencies usually charge about $160 to $180 for this tour.''ACCOMMODATION''The''Jose Ribas shelter''offers the following options:''Overnight: $20 in a bunk bed''Dinner + overnight + breakfast: $30''Camping area: $10''Hostel in Quito:''Discovery Quito''. Nice, economic and well located.''TRANSPORT''Bus Quito – Cotopaxi Park: $1.50''From the park entrance you’ll have to find a car to get you up to the parking area near the shelter. The price for this ride is around $10.''FOOD''You better bring your own food from Quito. You can get meals, teas and snacks at the shelter but it is quite expensive.''INSURANCE''If you are traveling in Ecuador, even on a short trip, I highly recommend that you get a good travel insurance. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options.''WEATHER. WHEN TO CLIMB COTOPAXI''The best seasons for climbing the Cotopaxi volcano are from June to September and from November to February.''TIPS FOR HIKING THE COTOPAXI VOLCANO''PHYSICAL CONDITION''Although many\xa0agencies says it’s a very easy climb that\xa0almost anyone can complete, this is\xa0not true. Half of the groups do not hit the summit. It is not technically difficult for someone with experience, but I don’t think this is a tourist attraction. Think carefully about whether or not you are trained before attempting a climb like this.''ACCLIMATIZATION''Prepare a good plan of acclimatization before climbing Cotopaxi. The most popular hikes you can start with are Rucu Pichincha,''Quilotoa Lagoon'', Pasochoa and''Iliniza Norte''.\xa0Some info about''altitude sickness.''Next Read:''Hiking the Huayhuash circuit in Peru''Do you have any question about Climbing Cotopaxi volcano, Trekking Ecuador? Please, contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best route for hiking the Quilotoa loop and Saquis...''How to Climb Iliniza Norte: All you need to know''Hike to La Soufriere volcano in Saint Vincent''Top 10 best things to do in Quito, Ecuador''If you liked this, please share it:''Climbing Iliniza Norte was a very important part of our acclimatization before our''climb to the Cotopaxi volcano''. The Iliniza Norte is one of the most popular treks in Ecuador since there is no glacier at the top and it can be completed without using ropes or technical gear.''The Ecological Reserve of the Ilinizas is located immediately\xa0in front of the Cotopaxi volcano, so there are exceptional views of the great colossus. It is a really beautiful place, particularly at dawn, when the sun rises and you begin to see all the volcanoes over the cloudy horizon.''Trail details''Total distance: 14 km''Time: 2 days''Difficulty: Moderate – Difficult''Maximum Elevation: 5,126 meters''Map''The Iliniza Norte is considered one of the best trekking routes in Ecuador!''Looking at the Iliniza Sur''To access the Ecological Reserve of the Ilinizas, you must register at the office. Most of the tourists visiting the park are accompanied by a guide, although it’s not mandatory to have one. The problem is that the rangers probably won’t give you access if you are not bringing a guide because a few years ago there was a serious accident in which\xa0some people died.\xa0The rangers have become very strict since then.''I want to emphasize\xa0that this accident did not happen on the mountain we climbed, but in the Iliniza Sur, which is located in the same reserve but is much more technical.''There are two options for accessing the park without a guide:''The first one is to bring your mountain federation card, even if it’s issued in your home country. In theory, this should be enough to prove that you are an experienced hiker. Unfortunately, I hadn’t renewed my license in\xa0a long time.''The second option (the one we used, since we tend to be\xa0scoundrels), is\xa0telling the rangers that you\xa0just want to sleep in the shelter as part of your acclimatization for the Cotopaxi volcano and promising them that\xa0you\xa0won’t climb. In our case, once at the shelter, of course we climbed to the summit. We felt that we had enough experience to do it this way, but I’m not encouraging inexperienced people to climb on their own, as a couple of climbing steps on this route can be dangerous.''From “Campo de la Virgen” – the beginning of the route – to the shelter, you’ll walk about 3 hours along a dirt road (and, in our case, facing strong winds and thick fog).''Once at the shelter, we met a very nice Ecuadorian couple with whom we\xa0decided to climb the next day.''We woke up pretty early, about 5:00 am, and were ready for the climb. The weather was perfect; the sky was very clear above us, but a low mist was covering the mountainside, giving it a mysterious look.''The climb was very beautiful and exciting. First, you take a dirt path where the mountains seem to have different colors. Later you start climbing over the rocks, getting closer to the summit, all the time with stunning views of the Cotopaxi volcano and the Iliniza Sur. There was barely any snow on the summit, so we didn’t have\xa0to use crampons or ice axes.''Once at the top, we felt great emotion and took a few minutes to relax and enjoy the beautiful views. We were ready for our next challenge: the climb to the great Cotopaxi, nearly 6,000 meters high.''Climbing to the top''Cotopaxi in the back''Jabi on the summit''Budget for climbing Iliniza Norte. Ecuador trekking routes''Including food, entrance fees and transportation we spent around $ 30 per person for the two days it took to complete the climb.''ACCOMMODATION''The “Nuevos Horizontes” shelter, at 4,700 meters, is where you’ll spend the night before the climb. There you’ll find a kitchen, running water and a bathroom.''The shelter has 25 beds, and is open year round. The price is $10 US per person. Don’t forget to bring your own sleeping bag.''Hostel in Quito:''Discovery Quito''. Nice, economic and well located.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO THE ILINIZAS''To get to the Ilinizas by public transport:''First, take a bus from''Quito''to Machachi (1 hour). Then, in Machachi you will change busses and take the one going to El Chaupi (1 hour).''From El Chaupi you can take a Jeep to “Campo de la Virgen” where the trekking begins. The price is about $10 one way or $20 round trip. If you don’t see any Jeeps, just ask anyone in town and they will get you something in a few minutes.''FOOD''I recommend that you buy all your food in Quito, where you’ll find more options. There are a few stores in El Chaupi in case you need something.''Check out''the''Top 10 Best Hiking Watches''WEATHER''The two best seasons for climbing Iliniza Norte are from June to September and from November to February.''TIPS FOR CLIMBING ILINIZA''GUIDES''If you don’t have much experience on the mountain, I recommend that you hire a guide. Even though it’s\xa0a simple climb, there are a few technical steps.''ACCLIMATIZATION''This is a considerably high trek. I recommend that you climb the Rucu Pichincha beforehand so that your body gradually acclimatizes.\xa0Some info about''Altitude Sickness''.''INSURANCE''If you are hiking in Ecuador, even on a short trip, I highly recommend that you get a good travel insurance. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options.''Next Read:''The best things to do in Ecuador''Do you have any question about Ecuador trekking routes, Climbing Iliniza Norte? Please, contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 best things to do in Quito, Ecuador''Climbing Cotopaxi volcano on a budget. Trekking Ec...''If you liked this, please share it:''Dear fellow adventurers: Traveling the Caribbean on the cheap''is possible''. I want to be honest, though; it’s not easy, as it depends on your skills and how you plan the trip. However, by following a few recommendations, you can travel these beautiful islands on a budget.''Imagine dipping your feet into crystal-clear water, swimming with green turtles and camping on deserted beaches without spending a fortune.''Palm island beach, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines''Learn how to travel backpacking the Caribbean on the cheap!''Which are the cheapest Caribbean islands? Which islands should I visit?''This is one of the main factors you must consider because the differences in price (particularly in accommodation) between islands can be huge.''I’m going to talk about the islands we visited, and I will indicate the average budget we spent per day and per person (including food, lodging and transportation).''Backpacking in Trinidad and Tobago. $ 17 / day''Trinidad and Tobago were the first two islands we visited on our way from Venezuela. It’s a country with a strong Rastafari culture and I would say, the friendliest people in\xa0the Caribbean. The beaches, however, are not impressive.''Trinidad is a pretty crowded and frenetic island with some spectacular scenery, including cliffs and tropical forests. Tobago is really laid back, with lots\xa0of Rastafarians, green landscapes and nice beaches.''Travel guide to Trinidad and Tobago''Backpacking in Grenada. $ 18 / day''Grenada’s capital, Saint George, is one of the most beautiful British colonial cities in the Caribbean. Personally, I love the small island of Carriacou, located a little farther north, where some beaches will take your breath away.''Travel guide to Grenada''Petite Martinique in the background''Backpacking in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. $ 25 / day''Here it starts getting\xa0a little more expensive because\xa0there are some must-do tours (such as the''visit to the Tobago Cays''), and that costs a little more. Moreover, there are not many places to camp.''I have to say that I found this country to be really amazing in terms of beautiful beaches and great landscapes.''Travel guide to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.''Backpacking in Barbados. $ 15 / day''Although this is\xa0one of the most expensive islands in the Caribbean, we managed to spend very little here because\xa0we used Couchsurfing and didn’t explore many places.We loved the island and\xa0had a very good time, but I wouldn’t recommend it for backpackers on a budget. Most of the beaches are lined with Top End\xa0hotels and private villas, and everything is really expensive. However, there are several''reasons to visit Barbados''! The food is\xa0great, the people are super friendly and the scenery is beautiful!''Backpacking in Dominica. $ 15 / day''Dominica is a bit cheaper than the neighboring islands and although it doesn’t have spectacular beaches, in my opinion\xa0no other island can beat Dominica’s nature, with its spectacular waterfalls, rivers and mountain hikes. The island is investing efforts in ecotourism to protect its\xa0untamed wilderness.''Travel guide to Dominica.''Backpacking in Martinique. $ 18 / day''Because Martinique is\xa0part of France, it’s logical to expect that accommodation will be quite expensive here. However, there is an inexpensive campsite south of the island where you can spend a few days in front of a nice beach, and prices in the supermarket are quite reasonable.''Travel guide to Martinique.''Backpacking in Puerto Rico. $ 25 / day''San Juan is a really vibrant city to spend a few days. The colonial streets, churches and fortifications are really impressive. Plus, if you want to improve your Salsa steps before you leave the Caribbean, this is the right place.''The nearby''islands of Culebra''and Vieques\xa0have top-rated beaches and camping options.''Travel guide to San Juan.''Cheap accommodation in the Caribbean. Where to sleep?''Sleeping on the beach''Definitely the cheapest of all options. It is possible to find quite a few beaches where you can\xa0camp without paying.''I recommend''the beaches of Castara''and Charloteville in Tobago,''Anse la Roche in Carriacou''and the small island in front of Ashton in''Union Island''. These places seemed safe to me. When in doubt, ask the local people where they’d recommend you camp.''Campsites''Although not a popular option, you will find a few campsites, where you’ll sleep safer for a reasonable price.''I recommend the campsite of''Blanchisseusse''in Trinidad (100 TT negotiable per night), where you can also see huge leatherbacks during the right season. In addition, I recommend the campsite of''Sainte Anne in Martinique''(12 euros per night) and the campsite of''Flamenco beach''on Culebra, Puerto Rico ($ 30, also negotiable).''Cheap Hostels''The choice is''quite limited''. I tried to use Couchsurfind a lot. However, I stayed in hostels too. These are some options that I can recommend.''Saint George’s, Grenada:''Cosy Hut''.''Victoria, Grenada:''Kim’s Farm.''If you contact him through Couchsurfing, you’ll get a really good price.''Scarborough, Tobago:''Anns’ Villa''.''Union, Saint Vincent:''T.j Plaza Guest House.''Ask the locals, they know the place.''Roseau, Dominica:''Anthurium Apartment.''Airbnb''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. There are a lot of good (non-expensive) options in the Caribbean. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''Couchsurfing''In my experience,''couchsurfing''works really well throughout the Caribbean. We used this option on almost every island and I think it’s one of the most important keys to saving money. In addition, it’s a great way to meet either locals or expats living there who can give you good tips.''Read:''Couchsurfing 101. The Ultimate Guide'', by my friend Will, The Broke Backpacker.''Where to eat cheap while backpacking the Caribbean''Local products''It’s always cheaper to buy products in local markets, particularly fruits and vegetables. Most of the manufactured products are imported from the U.S. or Europe, making them''very expensive''.''Cheap restaurants''After a couple of weeks of eating bananas and rice every day, it may be time to brighten up your diet a bit. Most of the islands are heavily influenced by Indian food, so there are a lot of''Roti shops'', which are small restaurants serving Roti, a delicious Indian dish with vegetables or meat which usually costs just a few dollars.''Transport. How to travel within the islands''Local boats''One of the cheapest methods, this option allows you to enjoy the scenery and meet local people at the same time. Unfortunately, not all the islands are connected with regular services, so you can get stuck sometimes.''Ferries''The “Express des Iles” covers the following route: Santa Lucia – Martinique-Dominica – Guadeloupe. These ferries are modern and fast, but on the downside, they are pretty expensive. The price for any ride is 80 euros.''Flights''Flights between the islands are not cheap at all, so try to avoid this option if possible. Most flights cost from $ 150- $200 just for a 30 minute trip.''Hitchhiking sailing boats''If you like adventure, this is a good option – visiting marinas and trying to find someone who can give you a lift in exchange for help. There are several good websites like''findacrew''or''crewbay''where people leave their ads looking for either passengers or crew.''Your chances of getting a lift highly depend on the island you are on at that moment and also on the season. I will talk about this in more detail later in “When to travel the Caribbean.”''How to get from Venezuela to Puerto Rico, explained step by step. (Based on my experiences)''From Venezuela to Trinidad''There is a kind of ferry from Guiria in Venezuela to San Fernando in Trinidad, operated by a not-very-serious Venezuelan agency. The boat usually leaves once or twice a week.''Ferry Guiria – San Fernando. Galea Global tours. 10,000 bolivars (2015) + $ 50''From Trinidad to Tobago''Daily Ferry: Port of Spain, Trinidad – Scarborough, Tobago. 100 TT''From Trinidad to Grenada''In the marina of Chaguaramas in Trinidad, it should be easy to find a lift to Grenada at almost any time. We found a few lifts, but they were leaving some weeks later and we finally decided to fly so as not to get stuck in Trinidad.''Flight Port Spain – Grenada. 100 euros. Conviasa flies on Sundays.''From Grenada to Carriacou''Ferry Saint George – Carriacou. Amelia boat. 40 EC, Saturday 10 a.m. 4 hours. There are some more boats, depending on the day.''From Carriacou (Grenada) to Union (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)''“The Obedient” boat leaves every Monday and Thursday. 40 EC per person.''From Union to Saint Vincent''There are different boats covering this route: Union – Mayreau – Canouan – Bequia -Saint Vincent.''Fast boat, “Jade Sun”: Monday and Wednesday. Departure: 7 a.m. Price: 110 EC (opposite route on Tuesday and Thursday)''Cargo ship, “Barracuda”: Tuesday and Friday. Departure: 9 a.m Price: 75 EC (opposite route on Monday and Thursday)''Cargo ship, “Gem Star”: Wednesday and Saturday. Departure: 8 a.m. Price: 60 EC (opposite route on Tuesday and Friday)''From Saint Vincent to the northern islands''This is one of the most difficult parts of the journey as there are no local boats going to Barbados or St. Lucia (which is really close). If you want to find a lift, I recommend you try in Bequia.''We finally flew from Saint Vincent to Barbados and then from Barbados to Dominica. Each flight cost about $ 150 with LIAT Airlines.''From Dominica to Martinique''As we discussed above, the ferry “Express des Iles” covers the route from Saint Lucia to Guadeloupe, so we took this modern boat to get to Martinique for 80 euros.''From Martinique or Guadeloupe to Antigua, Saint Kitts, Sint Maarten, Puerto Rico, etc.''This is another complicated part. The most interesting option would be to get a lift to Antigua or St. Maarten, because flights in this area don’t drop below $ 200 per trip.''The marina of Le Marin in Martinique is a good place to ask around. Unfortunately for us, there was a small hurricane in the northern islands when we were in Martinique, so absolutely no one was sailing north. Finally, we decided to buy a flight to Puerto Rico for $ 120 with LIAT.''Flights between Sint Maarten, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico are generally inexpensive.''When to travel the Caribbean and how seasons can affect your plans''The hurricane season, which runs from July to November, will condition your trip in many ways. You can check out the''Hurricane National Center''for the dates of your visit.''Traveling during the high season (December to April)''The weather is much better; sunny days with little rain.''It’s potentially easier to find sailing boats between islands.''Prices are higher and some beaches can get quite crowded.''Traveling during the hurricane season (July to November)''It’s much easier to bargain the price of accommodations.''You won’t find many tourists, which means idyllic beaches almost to\xa0yourself.''It doesn’t usually rain all the time and almost everyday the sun comes out for a few hours.''The chances to get a sailing boat lift are much smaller.''Finding a lift on a sailing boat''December to May:''Easy to find sailing boats going in any direction.''May to August:''The north is usually the area most affected by hurricanes, so many people start going down to the southern islands. Most look for a safe place in\xa0Trinidad, which is outside the hurricane belt. These are good months to travel the Caribbean if you start your trip in the north islands and go down gradually.''November to February:''During these months, once the hurricane season is over, most of the boats tend to sail back up and explore the north. If you are planning to travel starting from Venezuela or Trinidad, these are the most favorable months.''Tips for backpacking the Caribbean''Onward/return ticket dilemma and possible problems with immigration''Some countries may theoretically ask you for a return ticket. As you probably don’t know when you’re leaving or where you’re going next… who knows? Maybe you are planning to leave the country by boat or whatever… Chances are that you will probably not have a\xa0return ticket.''The trick is to make a reservation on the\xa0LIAT website, where you can book a ticket without paying. They hold your booking for 24 hours, waiting for payment without charging you anything. Later, they’ll send you an email with the booking details. Open that email and change NOT CONFIRMED to\xa0CONFIRMED… and everyone is happy! It will work for the immigration officers.''Note: Barbados’ “super nice” officers didn’t want to let us in the country because our ticket out was leaving for Dominica. According to them, the ticket had to be returning to Europe. Therefore, I recommend that you make one of these fake reservations, either for Martinique or Guadeloupe, because they are part of the European Union. (If you are European, of course.)''Choose wisely which islands you want to visit''Although each island has its unique attributes, many of them share a similar culture, as well as similar music, cuisine and even landscapes. Therefore,\xa0I think it’s not absolutely necessary to visit each and every island to have a good Caribbean experience.''If your priority is beaches, I’d say to not\xa0miss the''Tobago Cays in Saint Vincent''and''Carricou in Grenada''. If your priority is hiking and nature, I recommend that you''hike to the Boiling Lake''in Dominica and''La Soufriéere volcano in Saint Vincent''. For a strong cultural experience I recommend''Trinidad and Tobago'', which has a very interesting and unique identity.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the Caribbean islands. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Would you pin it? Thanks!''Did you enjoy Backpacking the Caribbean on a budget? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Backpacking in Dominica. Ultimate travel guide''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''Backpacking in Grenada. Travel guide''Playa Flamenco: Best Beach and Best Camping in Pue...''If you liked this, please share it:''San Juan,''the capital of Puerto Rico'', is one of the most vibrant''destinations in the Caribbean''. Wear some good shoes and get ready to walk the streets of this colonial city with Spanish heritage.''Founded in 1521 and formerly known as the “city of Puerto Rico,” this is the second-oldest settlement in the Americas, after Santo Domingo city in the Dominican Republic. Today, San Juan is known for its beautiful architecture, great music and intense nightlife.''Explore the cathedrals, pastel-colored buildings, beautiful balconies, animated squares and huge fortifications of Old San Juan before getting lost in the Latin flavored nightlife.''The top things to do in San Juan, Puerto Rico.''1- THE CATHEDRAL OF SAN JUAN BAUTISTA''Located in Old San Juan, the''second-oldest cathedral''in the Americas is a must-see for all those walking the old streets of the capital.''The streets around the Cathedral of San Juan''2- PLAZA DE ARMAS AND PLAZA SALVADOR BREU''Most activities, such as live music and different shows, are organized in these two squares. Salvador Breu Square has stairs with access to colorful alleys you can\xa0wander around.''3- PLAZA COLÓN''One of the''most beautiful squares''in the city, with several significant buildings on the sides, including the Government Reception Center.''4- FORT SAN FELIPE DEL MORRO''An impressive sixteenth-century fortification used by the Spaniards to defend themselves against enemies throughout the\xa0centuries. Named a''World Heritage Sit''e by UNESCO in 1983, it’s to this day one of the greatest icons of the city.''5- SANTA MARÍA CEMETERY AND THE DISTRICT OF LA PERLA''Right next to Fort San Felipe, you\xa0can see the Santa María Cemetery with the “La Perla” neighborhood in the background. If you want to''visit La Perla'', I recommend that you go with someone who knows the area because it’s considered a somewhat dangerous neighborhood.''6- STROLLING AROUND THE COLORFUL STREETS OF OLD SAN JUAN''This is, in my opinion, the best of all activities: wandering. Old San Juan is actually not that big, so in a few hours you can walk many\xa0streets and appreciate the city’s\xa0architecture and unique\xa0essence.''7- PASEO DEL MORRO AND LA PUERTA DE SAN JUAN''If you cross through''La Puerta de San Juan''(San Juan Gate), outside the walls you’ll find a lovely walk, in\xa0which you can watch the sun set over the sea.''8- VISIT THE ISLANDS OF CULEBRA AND VIEQUES''These are two of''the most spectacular islands''in the Caribbean and are not far from San Juan. If you have a couple extra days, I recommend that you visit\xa0Vieques or''Culebra island''for some relaxation after the crazy nightlife of the capital.''Flamenco beach in Culebra''Where to go out in San Juan: The nightlife of the city''OLD SAN JUAN''This is certainly''most “touristy” part of town'', so it has\xa0no shortage of bars and clubs in which to\xa0party. Although many\xa0of the patrons\xa0are foreign (especially from the continental U.S.), it’s also a popular area for Puerto Ricans. Tetuan Street is a good place to start the evening, with many bars and terraces, as well as some busking.''Tetuan Street''LA PLACITA''If you want to''party as a real Puerto Rican'', you have to go to La Placita. It’s out of Old San Juan, but not very far away. The place gets really crowded with\xa0people drinking and dancing for hours to the rhythm of salsa.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Puerto Rico. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Hiking La Soufriere volcano in Saint Vincent''Would you pin it? Thanks''Do you have any doubt about Top things to do in San Juan Puerto Rico? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Travel guide for backpacking the Caribbean on a bu...''Playa Flamenco: Best Beach and Best Camping in Pue...''If you liked this, please share it:''In every island we visited in the Caribbean, we heard''the same story''from the locals: we have the best rum in the Caribbean, we have the best beaches, the best mountains, the best carnival, the best diving spots, the best food, etc. Well, that’s fine; I understand that people defend their country, but come on! You can’t always have all the best spots in your country. Sometimes you need to\xa0be a little realistic.''So, of course, when we got to Puerto Rico, someone told us, “Here, in Puerto Rico, we have''the best beach in the world!''Flamenco Beach, in Culebra Island!”''“Ok, sure, sure,” I said. “Like in every Caribbean island, right?”''“No, my friend, this one has been\xa0chosen for several years as the best, or sometimes the second best, beach in the world.”''Ok, since we’re here, I guess it’s not a bad idea to visit''Flamenco Beach''– I thought. We can confirm whether\xa0the beach is as beautiful as they say.''At night, we arrived at Flamenco Beach’s camping site and absolutely nobody was\xa0there. This campground is known as the best camping in Puerto Rico but it doesn’t get very crowded. The place looks slightly wild but has garbage bins, showers and bathrooms.''We pitched our tent and spent the night. Upon waking, we walked to the beach. We made our way through the bushes and stepped on the soft white sand of Flamenco Beach.''I guess it’s impossible to say which is the most beautiful beach in the world because it is certainly something subjective; there are hundreds of stunning beaches, each with its\xa0own style.''Yet if your idea of a perfect beach is a large bay of white sand with turquoise waters as far as the eye can see, Flamenco Beach can be the number one.''The place is truly spectacular in terms of natural beauty and is one of the nicest places I have seen in my life. However, there are some kiosks selling food and drinks that, although located behind the beach, can ruin your idea of a lost paradise a bit.''Jaco Beach in''East Timor''or''the Tobago Cays''in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remain my favorite beaches, though I have to admit that''Flamenco Beach also made my jaw drop''.''How to get to Flamenco Beach in Culebra Island. The Best camping in Puerto Rico''First, you need to go from San Juan to the city of Fajardo. From Fajardo you can take a ferry to the island of Culebra and then, take a small bus to get to Flamenco Beach.''HOW TO GET TO FAJARDO''Taxi:''Rides from San Juan airport to Fajardo go for around $80.''Public transport'': If you are not willing to spend $80 to get to Fajardo, don’t worry; there are more options. We took\xa0the following route:''– First, take a bus from Old San Juan’s bus terminal to Sagrado Corazón. It’s usually the M3 bus, but you better confirm it beforehand. Price: $0.75''– From the Sagrado Corazón bus stop, you’ll head to the train terminal which is right next door, and take a train going to Rio Piedras. Price: $1.50''– From the terminal of Rio Piedras, walk to the public cars terminal (terminal de guaguas), which is about 3 or 4 blocks away.''– Once in the public cars terminal of Rio Piedras, take the van to Fajardo. Some of them go straight to the port; otherwise you’ll be left in Fajardo city and then you’ll either need to walk for 30-40 minutes to the port or take a city bus. The price from Rio Piedras to Fajardo is about $7.''Please keep in mind that there is little transport on Sundays: not a good day for traveling.''FROM FAJARDO TO CULEBRA ISLAND''There are several ferries taking\xa0this journey daily. Ticket: $2.25.''Here is the ferry schedule''FROM CULEBRA ISLAND PORT TO FLAMENCO BEACH''A\xa0small local bus covers this route all the time. It takes only about 15 minutes and the price is $3.''Accommodation in Flamenco Beach, Culebra.''Just behind the beach is a huge camping area which is actually pretty well camouflaged among the trees of the surrounding forest. The place is really nice and has all the basic services, including drinking water, showers and bathrooms.''The price per tent is $30 per night''. It’s very expensive, but\xa0one of the guards was super cool with us and we paid for just one night (instead of two) as if we were pensioners, which is half the price. So, we ended up paying $15 for two nights, which is a fairly reasonable price.''Next Read:''How to travel the Caribbean islands on a budget''Would you pin it? Thanks''Do you have any doubt about Flamenco Beach: Best camping in Puerto Rico? Leave a comment!''The''French island of Martinique''is a place of cultural fusion. It’s a mix of European architecture and\xa0100 percent African-flavor traditions, which makes this destination quite unique.''You will find plenty of activities to take part in\xa0while visiting this island: relaxing on the beautiful\xa0southern beaches, exploring mountains and volcanoes or admiring the colonial architecture of the populated Fort de France. Then you can\xa0delight yourself with delicious French-influenced cuisine, accompanied by Bordeaux wine and maybe later a glass of Caribbean rum to finish a perfect day.''Best things to do in Martinique''1- FORT DE FRANCE''Martinique’s capital, Fort de France, is a''vibrant and lively place''with beautiful colonial architecture, boutique shops and amazing Creole markets. At night some areas seemed a little shady to me, but it’s definitely worth a visit.''Fort de France market. photo by''Gael Chardon''. flickr.''2- SAINT PIERRE''Formerly known as the “Paris of the Caribbean”, the city was''seriously damaged\xa0in 1902''by the eruption of Mount Pelée, which killed more than 20,000 residents. Built on the ruins of the old St. Pierre, the new city offers dramatic views of Mount Pelée.''The Volcano museum carefully describes\xa0those events and the current volcanic activity in the region.''Saint Pierre, the former capital. photo by''Roberto Faccenda''. flickr''3- MOUNT PELÉE''The more adventurous can complete the''hike to Mount Pelée'', an impressive volcano with stunning views of the northern part of the island. The trek can be completed in the same day and offers a variety\xa0of different sceneries, flora and fauna.''Mount Pelée. photo by''Arnaud Abadie''. flickr''4- SAINTE ANNE''The small village of Sainte Anne is the perfect destination for those who want to spend a few days on''an idyllic beach''without spending a fortune.''Sainte Anne’s camping'', located just behind the beach, offers options for all budgets.''Travel budget for backpacking in Martinique. $18 / day''If you stick with camping, taking a few vans or even hitchhiking sometimes, it is possible to travel around the island for''about $18 a day'', including some occasional luxuries, like a bottle of red wine.''ACCOMMODATION''Sainte Anne’s camping:''12 euros to pitch your own tent''for up to 3 people.''TRANSPORT''Within the island''Fort de France – Sainte Anne van: 8 euros''Van short rides: 4 euros''City bus in Fort de France: 1.80 euros''Ferry''The “Express des Iles” ferry covers the following route: Santa Lucia – Martinique – Dominica – Guadeloupe.''The price per ride is 80 euros, regardless of the distance.''You can book it online her, on''the Express des IIes website.''FOOD AND DRINK''Supermarkets offer\xa0the''same prices as in Europe''. The difference with the neighboring islands is that here you can find good French cheese and wine.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''Keep in mind that the hurricane season runs from July to November, although you can travel any time.''Tips for backpacking in Martinique''HITCHHIKING''You can pretty much get around''the whole island by hitchhiking.''The local people are super friendly and will always help you.''HITHCHIKING SAILING BOATS''The marina of''Le Marin is an excellent place''to look for a sailing boat lift. It’s one of the busiest ports in the area so it’s always full of boats. Within the marina is a bulletin board where you can leave your own ad.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Martinique. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Backpacking the Caribbean islands on a budget''Do you have any question about Backpacking in Martinique? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Best place for Camping in Martinique: Sainte Anne,...''If you liked this, please share it:''After traveling around some Caribbean islands such as''Grenada'',''Saint Vincent''and''Dominica,''getting to Martinique was''a real godsend''. It was like a small “break” amid\xa0all the adventures we had been having\xa0on the other islands. The lack of transport and the ridiculously high prices can make''backpacking in the Caribbean''pretty hard sometimes.''That’s why we definitely took our visit to Sainte Anne beach as a holiday during our\xa0holidays. After our great experience living for more than''a week on a pirate ship'', we decided to step back onshore and camp\xa0for a while on\xa0Sainte Anne, in the southern part of the island.''The''camping in Sainte Anne''is very reasonable in terms of price and the nearby supermarkets are also quite affordable. The best of all was\xa0the high quality of the products, as\xa0most of them are imported from France. I could not believe that I was in a European supermarket after so many years. A piece of good Camembert cheese for 2 euros and a bottle of pretty decent red wine for 5 euros?''It was so good to be in the Caribbean with French flavor!!!''Sainte Anne Beach is a''very popular holiday destination''for both locals and French people who have decided to escape the cold European winter by visiting\xa0the Caribbean. There are dozens of restaurants and tourist bars along this beach, which boasts about being one of the most beautiful places on the island.''Just behind the beach''is a huge camping site''with different options: a campground where you can pitch your own tent, some permanent family-sized tents or even luxurious American-style caravans.''There are options for all budgets, so no more excuses for travelers who don’t visit Martinique because they say it’s an expensive island.''Where is the camping of Sainte Anne, Martinique?''Budget for camping in Martinique''ACCOMMODATION''If you have''your own tent'',''the price is 12 euros''(up to 3 people). We were two, so we spent only 6 euros each. It was\xa0a good price for staying in front of an idyllic Caribbean beach.''The''family-sized tents''(kitchen included) cost about''40-60 euros per day''.''You can visit''the Sainte Anne camping website''here. There are also some phone numbers.''The caravans were much more expensive, this is the''Airstream official website.''TRANSPORT''There are vans from Port de France to Sainte Anne for''about 8 euros''. You should take them in the morning because they don’t leave as frequently after noon.''We always moved around the island by''hitchhiking and it worked really well.''FOOD AND DRINK''In Le Marin (a 10-minute drive from Sainte Anne), there are''several supermarket''s, including Carrefour, where you can find almost everything at reasonable prices.''In Sainte Anne, there are a few minimarkets and a good bakery, although the prices are slightly higher.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Martinique. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Hiking the Boiling Lake in Dominica''Do you have any question about Camping in Martinique? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Backpacking in Martinique''If you liked this, please share it:''Before embarking on this trip, I wasn’t sure about what we would find. The Caribbean is not a backpacker destination, so if you get away from\xa0of all-inclusive resorts and luxurious marinas, it is virtually''unknown territory for travelers''.''Actually, I had some doubts about this trip, particularly about where we would sleep without staying at expensive hotels or whether we would find a sailboat to give us a ride.''So I imagined myself camping on idyllic beaches, eating tropical fruits, visiting marinas to find a sailboat ride and dancing to the reggae music of Bob Marley. Logical thoughts that came to my mind before undertaking a trip like this. However,\xa0the good thing about traveling is no matter what you think is going to happen, in the end''the path is full of amazing surprises''and you never know what the future holds.''What I could never have imagined is that we would live on a real pirate ship!!!''Our visit to''the French island of Martinique''was a great experience. We contacted a guy through\xa0Couchsurfing and he said we could stay on his boat. We saw pictures on his profile and it seemed like a cute sailing boat. We thought it would be a different experience and decided to spend a few days with him.''After we met\xa0and had a few beers with our host, Karol, he told us he had a great idea. “Guys, would you like to stay on a friend’s boat, which is a bit bigger, so you feel more comfortable?”''“Yeah, sure, no problem” – we said.''Getting to know Victoria, Queen of the Seas.''Finally, he brought us to the boat. There she was, impressive and majestic:''a huge pirate ship named Victoria''. We could not believe it! Was this our new couch? Thanks, Couchsurfing!''Victoria is a replica of the legendary ship of Magellan. It was built in the Czech Republic. After sailing up the river to the Atlantic, it finally got to the Caribbean. The owner lets\xa0travelers stay on board for free in exchange for taking care of the ship, so some people have been living there for months.''Living on a pirate ship is a very interesting experience. The cabins were really authentic, with wooden beds, standing water and some cockroaches. Fresh water was a very valuable commodity because\xa0it is collected rainwater that is stored in tanks. Most of the time we had less than one liter per person to take a shower… Can you imagine that? It can certainly be an art to soap up and rinse off with that amount.''As for transport,\xa0since Victoria is anchored in a bay, we had a kayak to get to the mainland so we could go to the beach or buy some food. The place is very beautiful and it’s full of other anchored sailboats, mainly “sea-gypsies” who have decided to spend their lives at sea.''Sometimes we swam to the other side of the bay to visit Karol, who lived just opposite Victoria. Then, friends from different boats would arrive\xa0to talk. It was a nice community of sea dogs and\xa0we were\xa0very happy during our a few days there!''Thank you, Karol, for your time,''for sharing your amazing stories and for letting us know Victoria. I’ll never forget that, for over a week, we lived on a pirate ship.''Next Read:''Travel guide for backpacking the Caribbean''Do you have any question about That time I lived on an old pirate ship? Leave a comment!''The island of Dominica is, in my opinion,''one of the most interesting places''in the Caribbean. The beaches might not be very\xa0impressive and perhaps the people are not as friendly as they are in the neighboring islands, but\xa0it’s definitely a paradise for hiking and adventure lovers.''Dominica has''impressive mountains'', milk-colored rivers, thick rainforests and lakes which are literally boiling. It’s''the Caribbean''of wild and unspoiled nature.''The prices are a bit more affordable than in the neighboring islands and by using couchsurfing it’s possible to find someone to host you for a few days.''Explore\xa0a paradise where tourism has not yet arrived and feel the African flavor in every street and market! Here, you will test your skills by negotiating prices and really coming into contact with the local people by sharing van rides. You’ll understand the meaning of “there’s always room for one more!”''Things to do while Backpacking Dominica on a budget''1- TRAFALGAR FALLS''Trafalgar Falls is''one of the main attractions''on the island. Besides being situated in a breathtaking natural environment (a thick jungle where it seems as though a velociraptor could show up at any time), you have access to very nice hot springs where you can relax and enjoy the views.''2- EMERALD POOL''Another beautiful place to\xa0visit on your trip to Dominica. Beyond\xa0the main entrance, you will\xa0walk downhill for about 15 minutes along\xa0a rocky path to get to the pool. The place is''perfect for\xa0relaxing''and having a swim.''Emerald pool. Dominica. photo by''Jiyi Ren''. flickr''3- SCOTTS HEAD PINNACLE''On the southwestern tip of the island is\xa0this peculiar rock formation. The area is''a popular diving spot''where you can find a great variety of coral and marine life. We were snorkeling around and the place is certainly nice. Do not miss the views from the top of Scotts Head because they are exceptional.''4- BOILING LAKE''This was''my favorite spot''on the whole island. Can you imagine a route where you enter\xa0a thick forest, cross some rivers, ascend\xa0to the top of a mountain, admire the landscape from there, walk through a valley where small geysers rise between streams and finally get to a lake which is literally boiling? Complete''the Hike to Boiling Lake''to live the experience yourself.''5- THE WAITUKUBULI TRAIL''This is an amazing circuit that''crosses the whole islan''d from one end to the other. The trail is made up of 14 segments which vary\xa0in difficulty and length. There are different passes (from $12 to $40) depending on how many days you are going to hike.''We did only a small part of the trek, but finishing the entire trail sounds like a great adventure that I would like to complete someday.''This is the''Waitukubuli official website''where you can find more information.''Travel budget for backpacking in Dominica. $15 / day''We managed to spend only''about $ 15 a day''during our stay given that we didn’t pay for accommodation. Basically, we spent everything on food, transport and tickets to visit the waterfalls.''ACCOMMODATION''We used''Couchsurfing''and were hosted by a great guy.''In Roseau'', you can find some basic lodges for about 100 EC.''I can recommend:''Anthurium Apartment.''TRANSPORT''Within the island''Van Airport – Roseau: 10 EC''Van short rides: 3.5 EC''Ferries''The “Express des Iles” ferry covers the following route: Santa Lucia – Martinique – Dominica – Guadeloupe.''The price is 80 euros per ride, so going to the next island is as expensive as going to the last one.''You can book online on the''Express des Iles website.''FOOD AND DRINK''Food is''quite expensive''. Prices in supermarkets are basically the same as they are in Europe. Vegetables and fruits can be found at\xa0a cheaper price in the local markets.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''Keep in mind that the hurricane season runs from July to November. Just two days after we left the island, there was a hurricane in which several people died.''Tips for backpacking in Dominica''ENTRANCE FEE TO TOURIST SPOTS''The''one-day pass''for most attractions''costs $5.''If you are planning to visit several places, it might be worth buying\xa0a''week pass for $12.''HITHCHIKING''As in pretty much all the Caribbean, hitchhiking''works really wel''l. We had to take just a few vans during our stay.''HITCHHIKING SAILING BOATS''I don’t think this is a place where you can easily find a boat ride since most of the sailing boats continue their route to Martinique or Dominique. If you have problems getting a ride, you can always take the ferry. Sometimes, spending several days waiting for a ride to another island means spending more money than taking the ferry straight away.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Dominica. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''The best things to do in Martinique''Do you have any questions about Backpacking in Dominica travel guide? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''If you liked this, please share it:''In''Dominica'', “Morne Trois Pitons” National Park, about 11 kilometers from the capital, Roseau, hides one of the best kept secrets of''the Caribbean islands'':''the incredible Boiling Lake''.''As the name suggests, this phenomenal lake is constantly boiling. And I’m not talking about small bubbles! A powerful eruption of steam comes out of\xa0the middle of the lake and the water rises dramatically, creating a surreal image.''The route up to the lake can be completed in about three hours, with\xa0about two-and-a-half hours required for the return. Therefore, it is important to leave early from Roseau; by including the time you spend in the lake, the trip can take up to seven\xa0hours total.''The hike to Boiling Lake in Dominica is divided into 3 parts.''From Titou Gorge to Breakfast River (45 minutes)''The first part of the trail runs through a beautiful rainforest; the path is quite muddy and can be slippery in some places. At the beginning, just to the left, you will\xa0find''the impressive Titou Gorge''.''Most people take\xa0a break\xa0at Breakfast River, precisely for that: to have\xa0breakfast or lunch. However,\xa0I personally do not recommend it, as the area\xa0is full of mosquitoes.''From Breakfast River to the Valley of Desolation (1 hour)''Once we cross the river, the climb becomes\xa0a bit more difficult. We leave behind the thick jungle and find a much more''open mountain landscape'', with spectacular views in all directions and steep cliffs by which we must venture. I find that this part has the most beautiful scenery of\xa0the route.''Right before getting to the Valley of Desolation''From the Valley of Desolation to Boiling Lake (1 hour)''The Valley of Desolation is an amazing place that seems to come straight out of the movie “Mad Max”. The color of the earth varies\xa0between gray, red and yellow due to the mud and sulfur left behind by the small geysers found throughout the valley.''The trek continues along a very rocky area before arriving at''beautiful Boiling Lake''. This is the only part where the path can be a little confusing; however,\xa0if you keep your eyes open, it should be easy to take\xa0the right way.''Valley of Desolation''Exploring\xa0Boiling Lake in Dominica''There is a small viewpoint over a cliff from which to\xa0observe the lake. The terrain is a bit unstable, so''don’t get too close''to the edge.''For those who want to get down to the lake to check out whether the water really reaches 100 degrees Celsius or not, there is a way on the left side of the viewpoint. This access is very steep and quite dangerous. I decided to go down myself, but I personally do not recommend it.''MAP''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO BOILING LAKE''Vans leave''from Roseau every day at 9:00''in the morning. The bus stop is at King George Street (right in front of Astaphan supermarket). The price must be around 5 EC. Try to take this van because the next one is at 12:30 or even later and then it would be too late to\xa0get\xa0back before dark.''We got there at 9:01 and the van was gone. So, we went to the road and hitchhiked. We\xa0finally found a van that took us to the starting point of the hike for 20 EC.''FOOD AND DRINK''The hike can be completed in the same day, so you just need to take some sandwiches, fruits and cookies. You will find several springs along the way where you can fill your bottle.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''The best season is from November to June, when there is not much rain. However, the trail can be completed any time, avoiding hurricanes, of course.''ENTRANCE FEE''There is a''$5 fee''for almost all the island’s attractions. However, when we went to Boiling Lake, nobody was at the entrance.''There is also a''week pass for $12.''The entrance fee for the Waikitubuli trail must be paid separately.''Tips for Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''GUIDES''Personally, I think that''a guide is not necessary''because\xa0the path is quite well marked. If you think you need one, you can find several guides in Roseau for about 140 EC.''LEAVING EARLY''As noted\xa0above, this trek can take up to seven hours, so try to leave early and do not miss the 9:00 a.m. van.''TREKKING BOOTS''The path can be''quite slippery'', as there are muddy areas. Bring good boots!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Dominica. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''ACCOMODATION''We found a very good host on''Couchsurfing''during our stay in Roseau. It was a very nice experience and we didn’t spend anything.''Next Read:''Hiking La Soufriere volcano in Saint Vincent''Do you have any questions about Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''Backpacking in Dominica. Ultimate travel guide''Torres del Paine W Trek: All you need to know''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''If you liked this, please share it:''Surely by now you’ve noticed my passion – an obsession with\xa0volcanoes. That uncontrollable attraction forces me to find them, climb their steep slopes and get down into their craters.''The little-visited country''of''Saint Vincent and the Grenadines'', in the middle of''the Caribbean islands'', boasts one of those unforgettable volcanoes. La Soufrière is enormous, covered by a thick rainforest, and has an accessible crater which is still very active.''The walk starts in a very dense rainforest. The path is pretty easy to follow and even though it isn’t steep, it can be a bit slippery in some places.''The trek to La Soufrière''can be completed in''about two and a half hours'', from the starting point to the top of the volcano. After the first hour, you pass a small river in a rocky area and the landscape changes a lot. Trees become bushes and plants become grass. Here, you can tell you are getting higher. The\xa0wind is even much colder.''This is the river, even though it was dry!''When you get to''the top of La Soufrière'', at 1,234 meters, the scenery is breathtaking. You cann’t imagine the size of the crater. It’s simply huge! Enormous cliffs painted in wild green rise from the sulfurous gate of hell.''Panoramic view of the crater''A new mountain rises from the crater''The most adventurous can use\xa0a rope to''access the crater''. If you decide to do this, keep in mind two things: – 1) Getting down by rope, exploring the crater for a bit\xa0and then climbing back up can take about two hours. 2) The way down is…let’s say safe, but very steep. There are a lot of loose stones and the ropes have been there since… who knows when.''Anyway, I recommend that you get down using the ropes, even though it’s the kind of situation that would give\xa0your mother a heart attack if she were watching you clown around.''Just be careful and enjoy La Soufrière!''That’s in the crater''MAP''Budget for\xa0Hiking La Soufrière Volcano''ENTRANCE FEE''When I went there, the gatehouse was closed and empty. It seems that the park rangers don’t work during the low season. In any event, I’m almost positive\xa0that you won’t have to pay a fee.''ACCOMMODATION''The trek is completed in a few hours so it’s not necessary to sleep there. However, it would be very interesting to spend a night in the crater, where you can camp.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET FROM KINGSTOWN TO LA SOUFRIÈRE''You can take a van''from Kingstown to Georgetown for 5 EC''. Then, when the driver stops in Georgetown, you can negotiate a ride to “Rabacca Dry River”, which is the beginning of the trek. It’s not far from Georgetown. We were three travelers and each paid 10 EC more, for the ride up to the entrance.''FOOD AND DRINK''Bring enough water because you will\xa0not find many places to fill your bottle during the hike.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''Theoretically, you should avoid the months from July to November since it’s the rainy and hurricane season. However,\xa0we did it in exactly those months and it was all good.''Tips for\xa0Hiking La Soufrière Volcano''GOOD SHOES''There are some areas where the path has many loose stones and it can be easy to trip. Wear\xa0good trekking boots so you won’t hurt your ankles.''ACCESS TO THE VOLCANO''There is another route to climb the volcano starting from the west coast of the island. A friend of mine who knows this path told me it’s not recommended, since it’s an area with a lot of marijuana plantations. I don’t think the owners of the plantations would like to have some people wandering around, so you wouldn’t want to get lost over there.''I only know the access starting from “Rabacca” so that’s what I can recommend.''Siguiente:''Exploring Tobago Cays in Saint Vincent''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Caribbean expedition!''Do you have any questions about Hiking La Soufrière\xa0Volcano? Leave a comment!''For those wondering which clothes I wear on my hikes or what kind of camera I use to take pictures, I have just created a list explaining the stuff I think is really important for a long term trip like this.''Although most of the time I use clothes that I have bought\xa0in a local market bargaining over the price, sometimes I think it’s necessary\xa0to spend some more money to get high quality material. Concerning\xa0mountaineering equipment particularly. Freezing nights can be dreadful!''Regarding the camera, I took the\xa0vast majority of the photos here with my old Canon 350D, which\xa0unfortunately gave up the ghost\xa0and I had to replace. But, I’m very\xa0pleased with the new one and its results.''For those who will undertake\xa0a long trip, who like photography or hiking, I recommend that you look at the following packing list:''MOUNTAIN AND HIKING. BEST BACKPACKING GEAR LIST''North Face Khumbu Jacket''This jacket is something I bring to all my trekking routes and travels. It’s a great companion on cold mountain nights and it can also be used in many more situations. Personally, I use it almost everyday in cooler areas.''Columbia Convertible Trekking Pants''On a hike you want your gear to be practical and comfortable. These pants are great because they have a zipper that allows you to turn them into shorts in seconds. They are perfect for routes starting at low warm areas that later reach some cold passes. You can do the whole hike with the same pants, just adapting them to temperature changes.''Columbia Raincoat''Sometimes, when the weather conditions get a little ugly you have to face strong wind and rain. That’s why this jacket should be among\xa0the basic gear for any traveler. Besides being windproof it is also totally waterproof, so you always stay dry.''White Sierra Waterproof Pants''These pants are perfect for hard winters or high altitude hikes. They are completely waterproof, very light and comfortable!''Check out the Top 10 Best Hiking Pants''Champion Long Sleeved Shirt''I always bring a few of these super light shirts to all my travels or hikes along with some short sleeved shirts.''Mountain Hardwear T-shirt''I love these short sleeved shirts because you can wear them during your mountain routes, adventure travels or just make them part of your everyday clothing.''Carhartt Wetzel Winter Hat''You know the importance of keeping your head warm, right? If you are traveling during the winter I recommend you to bring a good hat.''Salomon Hiking Waterproof Boots''Long time ago, I used old torn boots or even flip flops for some of my first hikes. After a few years I learned how important it is to wear good shoes; you don’t get so tired, they keep you dry and your feet don’t end up full of blisters. So far, I have not found other high quality boots like Salomon.''Pro-Tect Hiking Socks''You want to use good socks along with your hiking boots to prevent blisters and wounds.''Mountain Made Hiking Gloves''You can actually use these gloves for lots of outdoor activities like hiking, horseback riding, cycling or everyday use.''CAMPING AND TRAVEL.\xa0BEST BACKPACKING GEAR LIST''Osprey Aether 70 Backpack''Simply one of the best backpacks for its quality, large capacity, comfort and durability. It is also easy to pack and is fully adjustable to fine-tune the fit of your backpack to match your size. It’s a great choice\xa0for long-term travelers!''Check out the Top 10 Backpacks for Travel''Osprey Exos 48''However, if you are looking for an ultralight backpack for hiking and short adventure travels, the Osprey Exos 48 is just perfect!''Check out the Top 10 Lightweight backpacks for adventure sports''!''Marmot Limelight Tent''Durable and lightweight, it is a 3 season tent that you can use in almost any situation. I have tested it on heavy rains and snowfalls and it has always fared well. It’s perfect for two people as it has a generous interior with a 9 square foot vestibule for gear storage.''Check out the Top 11 Tents for Backpacking''Kelty Cosmic 20 Sleeping Bag''How many times did I think “Kelty, I love you” on freezing nights over 3,000 meters? I can’t count it! This sleeping bag is designed to withstand very low temperatures, but I have used it in many other situations simply leaving the zipper open to not be too hot inside.''Check out the Top 11 Ultralight Sleeping Bags''Camtoa Summer Sleeping Bag''Even though I love my Kelty 20, I have to admit that it can be too hot during the summer. For those travels and routes I’d bring my compact sleeping bag.''Therm-a-Rest Sleeping Pad''If you want to have a good rest after a hard day of hiking, you’ll need a proper sleeping pad. Some of them are very expensive but I think this one is a good value for money.''Check out the Top 11 Backpacking Sleeping Pads''Petzl – Headlamp 80 Lumens''Indispensable for any traveler, this great headlamp allows you to you read, cook or do anything in the dark.''Aquamira Water Treatment''If you are traveling to Asia, Africa or South America, these drops can be very helpful. If you are not sure about the water you’re about to drink, they will definitely kill all the bacteria, making the water potable.''Ultralight First Aid Kit''You never know what could happen when traveling, so you better be prepared for some accidents.''Victorinox Swiss Knife''A very useful knife I bring on all my hikes and travels.''Julbo Bibouak Sunglasses''I like the design and protection of these polarized Julbo!''Check out the Top 11 Sunglasses for Outdoor Adventures''Repel Insect Repellent''I recommend to get a repellent with at least 30 – 40% of DEET for a good protection. Particularly important for travels in Asia, Africa or South America where some mosquito bites can bring terrible diseases.''ELECTRONIC AND PHOTOGRAPHY.\xa0BEST BACKPACKING GEAR LIST''Nikon 5500''After my old Canon 350 D broke, I decided to buy this modern and affordable model and I’m super happy with the results. You’ll find the quality of Nikon with the best resolution, 24.2 MP and 1080p HD video.''Check out the Top 10 Best Cameras for Backpacking''Nikkor 50mm Lens''Portrait photography lovers know how important it is to bring a 50 mm on your travels. Thanks to this affordable little lens I could take some beautiful smiles all over Asia, Africa and the Americas.''Sigma 18-250''The Sigma 18 -250 lens is another good option to the Nikon 18 -140. This lens has a pretty good angle and an incredible telephoto zoom. It’s just perfect for traveling because you can take close up and far away pictures without changing the lens.''Kindle Paperwhite''The perfect travel companion for your long-haul journeys or for relaxing evenings. Carrying books in your backpack is not too practical, so the small Kindle allows us to bring hundreds of them with minimum weight.''MacBook Pro Retina 13''My most precious working tool. Nothing can beat a Macbook! This amazing\xa0laptop allows me to update my blog, work on my photos and keep in touch with my people while occupying minimal space.''Check out the Top 10 Best Laptops for Travel''Check out''other''HIKING GEAR''Buyer’s Guides''Would you pin it? Thanks''The Best Hiking Watches''Enjoy this article by National Geographic:''Hiking and Camping Gear Guide''Do you have any questions about the Best backpacking gear list? Please, contact me!''Amazon Affiliate Disclosure: Travelsauro is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com, Amazon. ca, Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.es.''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Top 10 Ultralight Backpacks 2018''Top 11 Best Backpacking Hammocks Review 2018''The Best Sleeping Pads for Backpacking''Top 11 Best Tents for Backpacking and Camping 2018''If you liked this, please share it:''It would be difficult to find another hike across South America that could beat''the beautiful Huayhuash Circuit''. This route will take you through dizzying cliffs, snowy peaks and surreal lagoons. Most people do it with an organized tour as it can take up to 10 or even 12 days to complete the entire circuit. However, my friend Jabi and I decided do it on our own, without guides and on a budget. Pure adventure!''We completed the circuit in 9 days. I have to say''it was not easy''. Everyday we walked for many hours carrying more than 30 kilos of food, water, camping equipment, clothes, etc. But one thing is for sure, I would definitely do it again. It was one of the best hiking experiences of my life.''MAP''Trekking the Huayhuash circuit on a budget during 10 days, without guides:''DAY 1:''We take a van from Huaraz to the village of Llamac. From there we walk up to the campsite of''“Quartelhuain”'', where we spend the first night.''DAY 2:''On this day we cross''the “Qaqanan pass”'', at 4,700 meters, with beautiful views of the valley. After that, we descend to the “lagoon of Mitucocha”, where we camp.''DAY 3:''We cross the''“Carhuac pass”'', at 4,650 meters, and then descend to our campsite in the “Carhuacocha lagoon”.''DAY 4:''We cross the “Carnicero pass”, at 4,600 meters, and then descend to our campsite in the beautiful''“lake of Carnicero”'', at 4,300 meters.''DAY 5:''We climb the''“Portachuelo de Huayhuash”''pass, at 4,750 meters. Later, we walk around the''“lagoon of Viconga”''and get to the campsite at 4,480 meters.''DAY 6:''We cross the highest pass of the trek,''“Punta Cuyoc pass”'', at about 5,000 meters. We descend through the valley of “Huanactapay” to the campsite.''DAY 7:''We continue through the valley of''“Huanactapay”''before we get to the campsite of''“Huatiac”''.''DAY 8:''On this day we cross two passes. First,''“Punta Tapush''” at 4,750 meters and then''“Punta Yaucha”''at 4,800 meters. We camp close to the beautiful lagoon of''“Jahuacocha”''.''DAY 9:''From the lagoon of''“Juahacocha”''we cross the “Llamac pass”, at 4,300 meters, to reach the village of Llamac and get back to civilization.''Lake Jahuacocha. photo by''Paulo Tomaz''. flickr.''Budget for trekking the Huayhuash circuit independently:''ACCOMMODATION''During the hike you can camp in designated areas. There are 9 different communities along the circuit and all of them''charge 25 soles''as a camping fee. Being low season, there were almost no people and we only paid in two communities. So, we just paid 50 soles!''I liked this hostel in Huaraz:''Casa de Ana B&B''. Amazing terrace on the top.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO HUAYHUASH''There are a few vans from Huaraz to Llamac every day.''The price is 20 soles'', although we were charged 25 soles because of our gringo faces, I guess.''FOOD AND DRINK''This is the hardest part of the trek. If you go without guides or porters, you have to carry all your food for 9 or 10 days. So, carefully plan what you’re going to bring because the first few days it can be very heavy. In some villages you can''buy some cheese'', but you will not find much more. We spent about 7 dollars a day on food.''There is no need to carry a lot of water, you will find thousands of streams along the trek.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''The best season is from May to September, when there is little rainfall.''We went in November and although we had some rain and snow, it is also possible to complete the trek. But I’m not saying it’s easy.''TIPS FOR HIKING THE HUAYHUASH CIRCUIT ON A BUDGET''ACCLIMATIZATION''This trek passes through areas over 5,000 meters, so it is very important to''do a good acclimatization''. We completed''the Santa Cruz trek''first as part of our acclimatization.''MAP''Get a good map in Huaraz''before going up to the mountain. You can also find many good maps online that you can print.''ORIENTATION''If you go on your own, it is important to''have experience reading maps''. It may be easier to orientate yourself in the dry season, as the paths are better marked.''During the rainy season, some paths were a bit complicated to understand. The rains created small rivers that came together with the original paths and it was a little confusing… it looked like there were a lot of new paths. Moreover, sometimes the mountains are completely covered by clouds, making reference points difficult to follow.''We got lost a couple of times and it was no fun. You need to be an intermediate experienced mountaineer to do it on your own during the rainy season.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Peru. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Climbing Iliniza Volcano in Ecuador''Do you have any questions about Trekking the Huayhuash circuit on a budget? Please, Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Annapurna base camp trek: Step by step guide''Backpacking in Peru. Ultimate Travel guide''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''If you liked this, please share it:''One of my reasons for coming to Peru was to''explore\xa0the Cordillera Blanca''. The Peruvian Andes are spectacular throughout the country. Once in Huaraz, we made some plans to explore different regions. From day trips around nearby lakes to some wild adventures like''hiking the Huayhuash circuit without a guide'', the endless options make this region one of the most interesting in the country.''After a few days of''acclimatization''and hiking logistics, we were ready for our first adventure: The Santa Cruz Trek.''This circuit is usually completed in 4 days and 3 nights, and goes through a beautiful valley decorated with snowy peaks, glaciers, rivers and beautiful lakes. It is''one of the most beautiful hikes''you can do in South America.''Most tourists come here with groups organized by agencies in Huaraz. We decided to buy a map and go on our own. The path is well marked and you will always find some group, so it would be very difficult to get lost along the Santa Cruz trek.''In general''the difficulty is medium'', depending on whether you take porters or go on your own. In any case, after a few days of acclimatization in Huaraz, it is possible for anyone with a certain physical fitness to complete the circuit.''MAPA''The city of Huaraz''4 days hiking the Santa Cruz trek on a budget''Day 1: Huaraz – Llamacorral''On the first day it’s a good idea to wake up pretty early. First we took''a van from Huaraz to Caraz''. In Caraz we took another van that would take us up the road (not suitable for people with vertigo) to''the tiny village of Cashapampa''. This is the starting point of the hike.''From Cashapampa we walked into a narrow valley with stunning views. Huge cliffs and a very long valley create a landscape of great beauty. Arriving at the Llamacorral camp, at 3,750 meters, we dropped our backpacks and began setting up camp. Here, one of the rangers charged us the park fee of 65 soles.''Day 2: Llamacorral – Tuallipampa''We continued along the beautiful valley up and downhill. We passed the''“Jatuconcha” lagoon''and admired the imposing mountains on both sides. On the left, you can see the peaks of Santa Cruz, Quitaraju and Alpamayo. At the end of the day, we camped in''Tuallipampa''(4,250 meters); one of the most beautiful places I’ve camped in my life. Right in front of the campsite, the peak “Taulliraju” forms a huge rock wall, rising from an amazing lagoon surrounded by glaciers. Simply spectacular.''My friend, Jabi''Day 3: Tuallipampa – Paria''This is the most spectacular day of the trek. We passed the highest point,''“Punta Unión” at 4,760 meters'', and saw several valleys and snowy peaks in all directions. After a long way down, we reached the campsite of Paria, at 3,850 meters, where we spent the night.''Day 4: Paria – Vaqueria''The last day of the hike was not very difficult. Basically, we walked down''from Paria to the village of Vaquería'', where we could find transport back to Huaraz. The views from the van window are spectacular.''View from the van window''ACCOMMODATION IN HUARAZ''I loved this hostel:''Casa de Ana B&B''. Amazing terrace on the top.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''The best season is''betwen May and September'', when the days are sunny and there is not much rain. We went in November though, during the rainy season, but the weather was okay.''TIPS FOR HIKING THE SANTA CRUZ TREK ON A BUDGET''GET A MAP''If you go on your own, consider''buying a map in Huaraz''. Although the path is well marked, it is always good to be sure where you go. There are several shops where you can buy one.''ACCLIMATIZATION''The Santa Cruz trek passes through a point of 4,750 meters, so it is important to do a''good acclimatization''. There are several lagoons near Huaraz that you can visit in a day trip. Just perfect for a gradual acclimatization.''WATER''Throughout the trekking''you will find some streams''where you can refill your bottle. However, be careful because there may be droppings and even dead animals in the lower areas. If you see a stream, try to fill your bottle from a higher area. Never drink water from the river that runs through the middle of the valley.''COMPLETE THE HIKE FROM VAQUERÍA''If you are not quite used to hiking, we were told that starting the trek from Vaquería was a bit easier. So that may be an option to consider.''VAN GOING BACK TO HUARAZ''There are several vans from Vaquería to Huaraz, but the''schedules are infrequent''. However, there are almost always some vans waiting for organized groups. You can ask if they have a place and they may take you for the same price.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you go hiking in Peru. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Climbing Cotopaxi Volcano in Ecuador''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Peruvian expedition!''Do you have any questions about Santa trek on a budget? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Torres del Paine W Trek: All you need to know''Annapurna base camp trek: Step by step guide''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''If you liked this, please share it:''I have to admit that I am a bit skeptical when somebody speaks of waterfalls or for that matter, any large volume of water flowing down a rockface.''It has probably happened to you before, when someone has said “look, there are some very beautiful waterfalls in this region you have to visit! You gotta take the bus number 28 to that town over there, where Jesuschrist lost his cap, walk for about four hours, cross two rivers, get chased by the dog that guards the neighbor’s goats…. and there you have the waterfalls … they are beautiful!”''So you do what they say, you get rained on, luckily that dog doesn’t bite you and when you finally arrive, you think “seriously? Have I just come all this way to see a 4 metre high waterfall? God damn it!”''Yes, it’s happened to me many times and i’m sure it will keep happening because I’m stubborn and for some reason I don’t learn from my mistakes. However, this time when I was told that I should do a small hike to the Gocta falls, they were in fact right. Oh yeah !!''It really is an impressive place!''Gocta falls seen from the beginning of the hike''The Gocta falls, also known as “La Chorrera”, consists of two drops, the first one 231 meters tall and the other 540, making it''a total height of 771 meters''. The image that you have at the beginning of the trek is spectacular, with the Gocta falls in the background, and as you get closer to source the views get even better''To get here you walk along a path in the midst of a thick, warm and humid forest surrounded by a beautiful mountaineous landscape. The Hike to the Gocta falls is quite simple. It doesn’t require much physical fitness and can be completed in 2.5 hours up and downhill.''MAP''HOW TO GET THERE''First, you have to get to the city of Chachapoyas and from there get transportation to''Cocachimba.''The transport from Chachapoyas to Cocachimba''is not very frequent'', but you can always find some Combis (vans) or a tourist bus.''TIPS. HIKE TO THE GOCTA FALLS''CLOTHES AND SHOES''The road can be somewhat''slippery'', so you have to take good boots.''In the rainy season, from November to March, it can rain a lot. A water jacket is a good idea.''ROAD FROM CAJAMARCA''Another good reason for coming here is to travel the dangerous road coming from Cajamarca, similar to that of the Road of the Death in Bolivia.''The views are unbeatable''and the recklessness of the driver, unsurpassed.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Peru. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Read Next:''Hiking the Huayhuash Circuit in Peru''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Peruvian expedition!''Do you have any questions about\xa0Hike to the Gocta falls in Chachapoyas? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''How to get to Machu Picchu on a budget''Trekking the Huayhuash Circuit on a budget. Peru&#''After the first Caribbean contact in''Trinidad'', our journey continued through these beautiful islands, with our next stop being the''amazing\xa0Grenada''.''Grenada passed from Spanish to French rule and later to British, an english/creole mix being the main spoken language today. Its inhabitants are mostly descendants of African slaves and''the culture is purely Caribbean'', without such Rastafarian trends as we saw in some of the neighboring islands.''Travelsauro Guide to the Caribbean islands on a budget.''Backpacking in Grenada''Things to do in Grenada''1. SAINT GEORGE''In my opinion,''the most beautiful city''of all the Lesser Antilles. Churches, streets, buildings and even the color of the bricks will make you feel like you are in London or Edinburgh. It has this northern European style mixed with local markets and Caribbean flavors. I recommend you make your way up to the Fort George for a beautiful view of the bay.''Sunset in Saint George''Saint George’s Cathedral''Bay of Saint George''2. GRAND ANSE BEACH''Grand Anse is''the most touristic beach''in the country, the sand is fine and the water a stunning blue. Coming from Trinidad, it was the first beach that made us really feel like we were in the Caribbean. However, the number of hotels, resorts and villas along the beach, may change this idea of paradise beach, depending of course, on your preferences.''3. MORNE ROUGE BEACH''Only 15 minutes walk from Grand Anse, Morne Rouge is a''much quieter alternative''. It’s much smaller, the water is as clear as at the previous beach but with just a few people.''4. UNDERWATER SCULPTURE PARK''Grab your snorkel gear and approach the''Molinere’s underwater sculpture park''to discover a new world. Although most people visit it through a dive center, you can do it on your own without spending anything.''Underwater sculpture park. photo by''northern man''. flickr''5. SEVEN SISTERS WATERFALL''There are several waterfalls that you can visit on the island.''The Seven Sisters'', after a short walk through the forest, allows you to refresh in its waters and even jump off from the top.''6. VISIT CARRIACOU''Grenada is a beautiful island, but honestly, her sister''Carriacou'', is unmatched. Some of its beaches are unbelievable, the pace is quieter and the people nicer. You can’t plan a trip to Grenada without visiting the island of Carriacou.''Budget for Backpacking in Grenada. $ 18/day''All of the Caribbean islands are quite expensive.''We spent $200 per person in 11 days''in Grenada. An average of''$18/day''including the price of the ferry from Grenada to Carriacou and from Carriacou to Union (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines). The trick was to Couchsurf and camp on some beaches.''ACCOMMODATION''In Victoria, you can stay at''Kim’s place.''The apartments are beautiful and located in a spectacular hill. I recommend you contact him through Couchsurfing to get a good price.''In Saint George’s I can recommend:''Cosy Hut''.''In Carriacou we used''Couchsurfing''and also camped on the beautiful beach of Anse la Roche, in the north of the island.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO GRENADA:''If you are lucky in the marina of Chaguaramas, in Trinidad and Tobago, you can find a sailboat to come to Grenada.''If you choose to fly, I recommend you take the Conviasa flight on Sundays.''Port of Spain – Saint George. 100 euros''one way. Conviasa''Within the islands''Taxi Saint George – Non pariel, Victoria. 120 EC''maxi Victoria – Saint George. 5 EC''maxi Saint George – Grand Anse. 2.5 EC''Ferry Saint George – Carriacou. Amelia boat. 40 EC'', Saturday 10am. 4 hours.''maxi Tyrell Bay – Hillsborough 3.5 EC''FOOD AND DRINK''As in all the Caribbean islands,''the food is expensive''. Prices in supermarkets are even higher than in the US or Europe. That’s why traveling through the Caribbean is not cheap for backpackers.''The street food also has high prices.''Roti chicken. 4 dollars''. (Getting one is enough)''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''Best from December to June''. Note that the hurricane season runs from July to November. The rains sometimes are not that strong and you may travel the country, but you are going to get a bit wet.''Tips for Backpacking in Grenada''DISTRIBUTE YOUR TIME WELL''If you want to visit both Grenada and Carriacou, I recommend you plan a bit, because Grenada is much bigger, but in my opinion,''the island of Carriacou''is much prettier.''CAMPING''In Carriacou is possible to camp on the beach of''Anse la Roche''for free.''HITCHHIKING''Hitchhiking works well''on both islands, it is something cultural for them and someone will always give you a lift to your destination. Moreover, it’s a good way to meet locals and talk to them.''FOOD''If you don’t want to spend much, I recommend traveling with a stove for cooking and buy food at the supermarket or local shops. Still, be prepared to spend more than you thought.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Grenada. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Hiking La Soufriere Volcano in Saint Vincent''Do you have any question about\xa0Backpacking in Grenada? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Visit Carriacou island, Grenada and the Grenadines''If you liked this, please share it:''You thought that the Caribbean islands are all palmtrees and white sand beaches? Nope! They have big mountains, rocky shores and yellow sand. Well, maybe I’m exaggerating a bit, but coming from''Trinidad and Tobago''and Grenada, we had not yet found any beach to truely leave us speechless. This changed when we got to Carriacou island.''This island, although part of''Grenada'', is also part of the Grenadines and has''the charm and beauty''of their sisters in''Saint Vincent''.''Hillsborough, the city of the pristine waters''Upon reaching the small capital of the island of Carriacou, one begins to understand the beauty of the Grenadines. Hillsborough beach extends to both sides of the city with stunning colors between clear, green and turquoise.''The town is small and the''people are very nice''in the Caribbean style. By this I mean they spend half the day smoking weed and saying: “Ya Man!”''On the way to Paradise Beach''Paradise Beach''A name that fits like a glove. We walked along the coast from Hillsborough to get here. The path was just beautiful. We made our way through the mangroves when the bay became more narrow and the water seemed a bathtub. We felt the strong smell of mangroves and the warm breeze of the wind. We walked a little further and''Paradise Beach''was opening in front of us. Wuauu !!! Is it a hallucination due to the heat and the smoke that one breaths in these islands? No, it was real.''It was perfect.''Incredible Beach''Pardise Beach and Sandy island in the background''Sandy island''Directly opposite from Paradise Beach lies the beautiful Sandy Island. Boomerang-shaped, the island has one coastline of white sand and the other formed by rocks, coconut trees and friendly hermit crabs everywhere.''The best thing was to be here alone, feeling as authentic castaways. The rocky part''is good for snorkeling'', so bring your snorkel gear.''You can hire a boat to take you from Paradise Beach for''40 EC return trip.''Sandy Island''Exploring Carriacou island''I love to get lost when I’m traveling. And so we got to the northernmost tip of the island. An amazing place where you can see the neighboring island of Union and the rugged west coast of Carriacou. From here you can also go down to a brave beach with beautiful colors where an old boat rests.''Actually, we were''looking for a dark cemetery''that is in one of the beaches, but in the end we took the wrong direction, we walked out of the path and got lost. The lap was not easy, we went through a swamp and a part where cows graze before finding a village where we got some good directions.''It was a great thing since on the way back we accidentally saw one of the most beautiful coasts of the island, we knew parts where nobody arrives and it was a lot of fun. Please, all travelers, Get lost from time to time!''Petite Martinique in the background''The cemetery itself''A little south of Bayaleau, we finally found''the cemetery of Tibeau or Tibo''. The place is quite dark, with some tombstones of hundreds of years. It was built directly on the beach, so storms and rough seas have moved or lifted many of the tombs, giving an even more terrorific aspect.''Camping at Anse la Roche''Even though we were doing Couchsurfing in Hillsborough and didn’t spend anything on accommodation, we decided to''explore the island a bit and camp on a beach.''The beach of Anse la Roche, on the northwest coast, was the perfect choice.''This beach is beautiful, easily accessed by a 30 minutes walk, has a very good snorkeling… and above all, it’s empty!''Good snorkel around that rock!''Conclusion''If you’re traveling to Grenada, you can not miss Carriacou island, the gateway to the Grenadines and one of the most beautiful islands in all the Caribbean.''Next Read:''Exploring Tobago Cays in the Grenadines''How to Travel the Caribbean islands on a budget''Do you have any questions about\xa0Discover Carriacou island? Leave a comment!''Several secrets are hidden inside this mountainous island. Rivers, lakes and waterfalls decorate the wild and thick jungle. We came to the Seven Sisters waterfalls to know this less visited region.''This hike is perfect for those who want to know something of nature without undergoing much physical exertion. The trek to the falls (more like a walk)''is completed in just three hours roundtrip''. The difficulty is medium -low.''The trail passes through a private property so''you have to pay 5 EC to enter''. At the entrance the boy will tell you that you need a guide to get to the falls, but it is not necessary. Kindly ask him to show you the path and there will be no problem. From the entrance you can see how the path takes different ways ahead, but the boy will tell you to take the left one. It is almost impossible to get lost.''The path is well marked and despite having some mud during the rainy season, there are wooden steps on the steepy parts so there are no accidents.''The nicest part is just before reaching the Seven Sisters waterfalls, where you walk through dense jungle and then a little further away from the falls, where you walk along a stream and the forest is dominated by''huge bamboo trees''.''The water in the pool is a little cold, but it is worth a swim to be just below the stream of the waterfall. It is a great feeling of freedom.''For the more adventurous, there is an access road to the top of the waterfall, where you can jump off. Personally, I didn’t because I wasn’t sure how deep the pool was, but later they confirmed that''it’s safe to jump''.''Map''Transport. How to get to the Seven Sisters Falls''You can''take a MaxiTaxi from Saint George’s to Greenville''and ask the driver to drop you off at the junction with the waterfalls. 5 EC''Weather. When to go''Any time is good''to visit the Seven Sisters falls in''Grenada''. We went during the rainy season and the path wasn’t that slippery.''Tips for a Hike to Seven Sisters Falls in Grenada''You don’t need a guide to get here''. Ask the guy at the entrance to show you the way from the wheelhouse.''Next Read:''Exploring the Tobago Cays in Saint Vincent''How to Travel Backpacking the Caribbean islands on the cheap''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Caribbean expedition!''Do you have any questions about\xa0Hike to Seven Sisters Falls in Grenada? Please Contact me!''A beautiful and surprising project can be found sprouting from the seabed here in Grenada. On the coast of Molinere, the artist Jason Taylor deCaires has created a garden of underwater sculptures that combines art with ecology.''The sculptures that decorate the seabed of Molinere Bay are''one of the best attraction''s you can''visit in Grenada''.''There are several groups of sculptures, almost all represent human figures and the underwater effect creates an impressive atmosphere.''The seabed in this bay was heavily damaged by several tropical storms, so this project is gradually creating a new basis for the formation of marine life. Different corals are born on the sculptures and attract other forms of life, thus recreating the underwater environment.''Sculprtures in the Molinere Underwater Park. Grenada. photo''by northern man''. flickr''Sculptures in the Molinere Underwater Park. Grenada. photo''by northern man''. flickr''Although several tour operators and dive centers offer expensive snorkeling and diving tours in the park,''it’s very easy to do it on your own.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET THERE''To get to the Molinere Underwater sculpture park'', you should take a MaxiTaxi to Dragon Bay.''We went hitchhiking, but it should cost about 2.5 EC for a MaxiTaxi from Saint George and 4 EC from Victoria. The van drops you off at the junction, it takes 10 minutes by walk down to Dragon Bay. Once in Dragon Bay, be carefull! the sculptures are not in this bay, but in Molinere Bay, just to the left.''To reach Molinere Bay''there are different options:''– You can rent a boat for 40 EC (a short ride)''– You can walk along the left coast of the beach , passing through a rocky area and discover at the end a small passage linking it with Molinere Bay. Once there, enjoy swimming and discovering the sculptures in the small bay.''Costs of visiting the Molinere Underwater sculpture park in Grenada''ENTRANCE FEE''I was told that there’s a''one dollar fee''to the park conservation, but when we went there, there was nobody.''BOAT''The Boat ride''from Dragon Bay to Molinere costs 40 EC''and takes you from one sculpture to another.''INDEPENDENT''Once in Dragon Bay, there may be a guide who offers to show you the sculptures snorkeling. I think it’s not necessary,''it’s much more exciting to discover the sculptures on your own.''Walk along the left coast of Dragon Bay until you find the pass to Molinere. No need to go far, the sculptures are within the Bay, so with a little time and good swim, you can see them all.''MAP''On the next map''you can appreciate the shorcut''from Dragon Bay to Molinere in black and the position of the scultures in red. Click on them to know their names.''WHEN TO GO''Any time of the year is good to approach the Molinere Underwater sculpture park.''TRAVEL TIPS''In my experience, the''best thing was going on our own'', just the snorkel gear and lots of energy. If you’re not a good swimmer, it would be a good idea to hire the boat.''Do you have any questions about\xa0Snorkeling at Grenada’s Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park? Leave a comment!''Get ready to know a completely different culture and''the friendliest people around the Caribbean''in two beautiful islands full of mountains, beaches, reggae music and Rastafaris.''With a population descended from African slaves and Indian workers, the country only achieved independence from the Britsh in 1962.''Being separated from Venezuela by a few kilometers, one has more''the feeling of being in Jamaica''than anything else. In Tobago, the songs of Bob Marley can be heard blaring through the streets and people live a leisurely philosophy of “Peace and Love”.''Fisherman in Castara Bay''Las Cuevas Beach''Check out the''Travelsauro Guide to the Caribbean islands on a budget''. Backpacking in Trinidad and Tobago.''Things to do in Trinidad''1. VISIT PORT OF SPAIN''Nothing remains here of the flavor of the first Spanish settlers. The town is an important port of oil activity with''some British influence''.''Forget the image of Caribbean white sand beaches. This is pure chaos, traffic (both cars and drugs) and pollution. However, it’s the best place to meet''incredible Rastafarians characters'', and visit local markets and bars where the beer flows constantly. Carnival here is really famous too.''People of Port of Spain. Photo by''Mark Morgan''. Flickr Creative Commons''2. THE BEACHES NORTH OF TRINIDAD''The road from Port of Spain to''Maracas Bay and Las Cuevas''is simply spectacular. Just for the ride (one hour by bus), its worth going north.''Maracas Bay is a beautiful beach that gets crowded on weekends. Here you can eat the classic shark sandwich. A little further you get to Las Cuevas, much more quiet and with equally beautiful surroundings.''3. LEATHERBACK TURTLES IN BLANCHISSEUSSE''They are''the largest turtles in the world''and come to nest on the coast of Trinidad every year between March and August.''Blanchisseusse is one of the best places''to find them. At night, adult mums come to nest on the beach while in the morning it’s easy to see some newborns running towards the sea.''Leatherback turtle in Blanchisseusse. photo by''Alastair Rae''. flickr Creative Commons''Things to do in Tobago''1. PIGEON POINT''This is''the most famous beach in the country''and one of the few that has white sand and turquoise waters. Moreover, you pay 20 TT to enter and everything is done in a very commercial way, with shops, bars, etc. Not my favorite beach, but it’s certainly very nice.''A cloudy day in Pigeon Point''2. SUNDAY SCHOOL IN BUCCOO''Every Sunday, from 21.00p.m, there is a''lively party in the small village of Buccoo''. There are several bands playing the famous Caribbean music of Trinidad and Tobago with “Steel Pans” (a kind of xylophone formed from shaped pans), local food stalls and bars with beer and rum punch.''Although a bit touristy it is a fun night to meet locals and dance Soca and Reggae.''3. CASTARA BEACH''This is by far my favorite beach.''The village of Castara''is quite small and the people are just amazing. We were camping on the beach and we felt at home. People came everyday to ask how we were, chatted with us and brought us some mangoes.''The beach itself''is very nice and a good place to see local life''. The fishermen get up early to go fishing with their boats and row back later with full nets of sardines while some Rastafarians spend the whole day in the shade, with a magical cigar in hand and a smile on their face.''Castara Beach''Fishermen in Castara''4. CHARLOTTEVILLE''This is a very nice,''quiet village to rest''in for a few days. The beach is wide with beautiful walks nearby and the people are friendly. Here many turtles also come at night and there’s no problem with camping on the beach.''Charlotteville''Travel budget for Backpacking in Trinidad and Tobago: $17/day''All the Caribbean islands are incredibly expensive.''We managed to spend''only $500 a month''in Trinidad and Tobago. This averages out to''around $17/ day''however we Couchsurfed in Port of Spain and camped almost every day in Blanchisseusse, Castara and Charlotteville.''ACCOMMODATION:''I loved this place in Buccoo:''Fish Tobago Guest House.''300 TT night''for a whole apartment.''TRANSPORTATION. HOW TO GET THERE:''FROM VENEZUELA''There is a boat from Guiria in Venezuela to San Fernando in Trinidad. It’s operated by a Venezuelan agency and it’s not taken overly seriously; confirm schedules and price because not everyone pays the same.''Boat Guiria – San Fernando. Galea Global tours. 10,000 bolivars (2015) + $50''WITHIN THE COUNTRY''Daily Ferry Port of Spain Trinidad – Tobago Scarborough. 100 TT''MaxiTaxi Port Spain – Chaguaramas. 5 TT''Maxi Port Spain – Blanchisseusse. 18 TT. You take it from the corner of Prince Street and George Street.''Maxi Port Spain – Maracas. 9 TT. Also leaving from the corner of Prince and George, as above.''Bus Port Spain – Blanchisseusse. 8 TT. In the terminal.''Maxi Scarborough – Castara. 12 TT''Bus Scarborough – Charlotteville. 8 TT''Maxi Scarborough – Charlotteville. 12 TT''IIF YOU CONTINUE TO GRENADA''Flight Port Spain – Grenada. 100 euros. Conviasa flies on Sundays.''FOOD AND DRINK:''The food of Trinidad and Tobago is quite influenced by India. Strong spices and sauces are used.''Doubles.''4 or 5 TT. It is a pancake type bread with lentil puree and spicy sauce. It is probably the country’s most famous snack.''The''Jamaica chicken''comes out for 40 TT in Sabanna park. It’s fried chicken with a spicy sauce served with chips.''The''roti''is a classic meal that can be found in many places. 20 TT. It is a pita bread filled with potatoes, vegetables or chicken and a spicy sauce. The best one is found in Scarborough, in front of the ferry terminal, the place is called Sam’s and the vegetable roti only costs 15 TT.''They are true fans of''KFC''. A meal costs 35 TT''The beer is an essential part of local culture.''Stag beer''. 10 TT''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''Note that the''hurricane season runs from July to October''. The rains are not as strong and you can travel the country, even if you get wet a little bit.''We traveled during this season and the rains were ok. It’s much more difficult to find sailboats that give you a lift from one island to another, but it is the best time to see turtles.''Travel tips for Backpacking in Trinidad and Tobago''CAMPING''It is possible to camp on many beaches in Trinidad and Tobago. Even though many are quiet, always ask before you pitch your tent as some can be quite dangerous.''SAILBOATS HITCHHIKING''It shouldn’t be difficult to get a sailboat lift from one island to another or straight to''Grenada''. However, keep in mind that during the hurricane season most of the boats go south, so it can be difficult to get one going north as happened to us.''In Trinidad and Tobago,''the place to get a sailboat is Chaguaramas'', where there are up to 5 marinas one after another.''If you’re traveling from one island to another in hurricane season, I recommend you start from the north, so it will be easy to find sailboats going south.''HITCHHIKING''Even though some people will say that it’s dangerous,''it’s perfectly possible''to travel by hitchhiking the two islands. The only place where I wouldn’t do it is near Port of Spain. The rest I found to be safe and easy. Especially in Tobago, where we never waited more than 15 minutes before someone gave us a lift.''GOING TO VENEZUELA''If your idea is to go from Trinidad to Venezuela, be sure to bring enough dollars, then change them on the black market and become rich in Venezuela.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Trinidad and Tobago. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you have any questin about\xa0Backpacking in Trinidad and Tobago? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''The entire island of''Tobago is very beautiful'', the beaches are calm, the mountains are rough and the culture fascinating. But there is a place, for some reason, that caught us and wouldn’t let us go; it’s the beautiful''Castara Bay''.''As backpackers on''our journey through the Caribbean'', we were looking for a nice beach where we could camp and spend a few days without spending much money. Arriving at Castara Bay, we knew we’d found that place.''It’s possible''to camp in the west part of the beach'', close to a basic wooden house where a woman lives. The villagers are very friendly, every day we talked with lifeguards, shopkeepers, fishermen, etc. and all welcomed us and even invited us to eat mangoes or join them for some drinks.''Every morning we watched the fishermen preparing their nets and going to the sea. Later, they returned dragging in large loads of fish with flocks of seagulls shrieking and wheeling overhead.''After lunch, it was a good time to take another bath and even do''some snorkeling''(although the water was a little murky), and in the evening we went to one of the bars to hear some reggae, connect to WIFI and to enjoy a well deserved beer.''Near where we camped there was a bar with a''super friendly staff,''a group of Rastafarians who spent their days smoking marijuana and laughing. The real characters of Castara Bay!''ACCOMMODATION''Camping: for free.''We camped on the beach and it was safe.''There are a lot of options like apartments and hotels.''Check some options here.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO CASTARA''Maxi Scarborough – Castara.''12 TT''Bus Scarborough – Castara.''8 TT''WHEN TO GO''Best from December to June''when there is little rain.''Hurricane season is from July to November, it can rain a few hours a day but the sun is out occasionally.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Trinidad and Tobago. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Do you have any questions about Castara Bay? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Every year, hundreds of these giant dinosaurs come to the coast of''Trinidad''to leave their eggs in nests carved into the sand. The spectacular''Leatherback Turtles''will make your visit to Trinidad unforgettable.''Astonishingly, these turtles can grow up to two meters and''weigh over 600 kilos''. Although found in almost all seas, their presence on the island of Trinidad''is especially strong''. It is said that 25% of all leatherback turtles in the world come from Trinidad.''Their diet is based mainly on jellyfish, but they can also eat squid, fish and seaweed. Leatherbacks mate at sea, the males never leave the water after birth and females only come to the coast''every two or three years to nest'', at exactly the same beach where they were born.''Leatherback turtle in Blanchisseusse. photo by''Alastair Rae''. flickr Creative Commons''Go\xa0to Blanchisseusse for\xa0turtle watching in Trinidad!''We were lucky to see the leatherback turtles in Trinidad, specifically in''the town of Blanchisseusse'', on the northern coast.''It was the month of July and we were told that every night a few turtles were approaching the beach. We camped just off the beach, slept deeply but started to hear noises in the dark, some people from the camping centre came to wake us up and what was our surprise when we emerged from the tent? …''Two huge turtles coming out of the water'', they were gigantic! Approaching like two huge cars through the night. The turtles took their time to nest and then to carefullly cover their eggs with their hind legs. Following this amazing show the biologists came to measure and examine them and also attached tracking chips.''Gradually the turtles returned to the sea, the biologists continued on their way and we couldn’t believe what we had just seen. It was definitely an experience I’ll never forget!''The next day, we saw some tiny turtle babies emerging from other nests and running towards the sea. Something amazing.''The best time for Leatherback Turtle watching in Trinidad is between March and August!''At this time, they form up to''300 nests per night''on some beaches. Although it seems a lot, these turtles are endangered, largely thanks to a range of problems caused by humans. One of the biggest problems turtles face is plastic ingestion from mistakenly eating plastic bags thinking that they are jellyfish. This plastic ingestion is often fatal, so please be more careful when disposing of your garbage!''Do you have any questions about\xa0Leatherback Turtle watching in Trinidad? Please Contact me!''Indonesia is''astonishingly diverse'', you will see that each island is completely different to the previous one, as if they were, in fact, different countries.''This is definitely one of the places where I felt better in my travels in Asia (and I have to admit my favourite country).''It’s not easy to say which are the best things to do in Indonesia because''the possibilities are endless''.''From the congested traffic of the cities to the calm of the deserted beaches, this diverse country offers many varied and unique experiences.''You can watch the orangutans in the wild, dive with sharks and manta rays, watch the sunrise over smoking volcanoes, walk through villages where traditions are kept intact or take hikes to mountain regions such as Papua, where the friendly locals still walk around naked with just a gourd covering their privates.''In the few months I spent in the country I tried to get off the beaten tracks, so I won’t speak here about Bali or the Gili islands.''If you want to know the most exciting places and the''best hikes of Indonesia'', follow this travel guide, and you won’t regret it.''Best things to do in Indonesia''1. NORTH SUMATRA''Despite its proximity to Malaysia and having many attractions, it’s one of the''least visited regions''of Indonesia. That also makes''northern Sumatra''a perfect place for adventure, where people are extremely friendly and the scenery, spectacular.''Walk to the top of active volcanoes, visit our redhead cousins from''Bukit Lawang''(in my opinion,''the best place to see orangutans in the wild'') or dive into the clear waters of''Pulau Weh'', a secret to be discovered, and considered one of the finest diving places around Indonesia.''2. THE MENTAWAI ISLANDS''If you really like''adventure'', I suggest taking a boat and venturing into''the Mentawai islands'', where you can trek through a thick rainforest to see one of the most remote tribes of Asia.''Although the experience is challenging with long days in the rain and mud, the reward of living with the Mentawais, is priceless.''3. THE EAST OF JAVA''Although a popular destination, visited by many travellers in Southeast Asia,''the Gunung Bromo''in East Java, is something you have to watch and an image that will remain forever etched in your mind.''Get here very early to see the sunrise over the smoke of different craters and the dust floating in the air. Simply spectacular.''4. TREK TO THE GUNUNG RINJANI IN LOMBOK''A must do for''hiking and volcano lovers''. Can you imagine a volcano where a huge crater lake has formed after the initial almighty eruption, only for a new volcano to eventually form and rise in the centre? Yes, that’s crazy Lombok.''Complete''the Gunung Rinjani trek''in just three days to see it with your own eyes.''5. THE ISLAND OF FLORES''The West Coast of the island is famous for the''Komodo National Park'', where you can take a boat ride and see the largest lizards in the world.''The rest of''the island of Flores''is virtually unknown territory; there are hundreds of villages with incredible traditions, mountains, jungles, beaches and the amazing Kelimutu volcano, whose crater appears to be filled with milk.''6. TIMOR INDONESIA AND TIMOR LESTE''The western part is formed by the''Indonesian province of Timor''and separated by a border, the eastern part, consisting of the young independent country of''Timor Leste''.''Despite the problems, the occupation, and the recent war, its people slowly look forward to and welcome travellers with smiles and amazing stories. Besides all this, the island has beautiful beaches, ancient traditions and sacred mountains like''Mount Ramelau''. Transport is poor and hostels not common; so it’s definitely a place for the more adventurous.''7. PAPUA''If we talk about''adventure and remote places'', we must speak of Papua. Getting here is not easy, but once in Papua, you will see that all the effort was worthwhile.''Hike the Baliem Valley''and immerse yourself in a unique culture in the world, where local people walk naked through the mountains where wood and straw huts replace villages. The region has green landscapes, strong rivers, wooden bridges falling apart and waterfalls adorning the cliffs. Pure fusion between natural and tribal force.''If you like scuba diving, you shouldn’t miss''Raja Ampat''which is definitely one of the best dive destinations in Indonesia.''TRAVEL BUDGET''You can usually travel in Indonesia for around''$20/day''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''Prices vary a bit from one island to another. In general, you can get a bed in a''basic room for $6''in most of the country, but costs can be higher in big cities.''Papua is far more overpriced, but I was lucky and stayed with Couchsurfing people, and so did not spend anything.''These are some options that I loved:''Yakarta:''Teduh Hostel Kota Tua''. Clean rooms, free breakfast, great location, and friendly staff.''Banda Aceh, Sumatra:''Crystall Guest house''. Simple rooms, but super friendly owner!''Mataram, Lombok:''Kurnia Jaya Hotel''. Great option for couples. It’s clean and comfortable.''Labuanbajo, Flores:''Dragon Dive Komodo''. Awesome place!''Dili, Timor:''Dili Central Backpackers''. Great location, plus nice staff and clean rooms.''Jayapura, Papua:''Homestay Galpera Papua''. Cool place and one of the cheapest options in Jayapura.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Indonesia. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Transport''Moving by bus and ferry is theoretically possible to reach any island. However, Pelni ferry service to the Moluccas or Papua just passes every 15 days, keeping these places remote.''Local buses have low prices like''$8 for a 10 hour ride''and the ferries from surrounding islands cost a few cents or a few dollars.''Food''Although not as good as the food of Thailand or Malaysia, Indonesia’s cuisine also has some delicious dishes. It has a great influence of Indian food, so be prepared for a lot of curry sauces on rice, chicken, and some very hot spices. The price of a good meal at street stalls or basic restaurant is''around $2.''WHEN TO GO:''The dry season, between April and September, is usually the best for most of the islands. However, this is precisely the rainy season in the area of Maluku and Papua.''TIPS FOR TRAVELERS''Don’t plan too often''One thing I love about Indonesia is''how different the islands are'', so sometimes it’s better not to plan much and see which island you like best and where you want to stay longer. However, be careful, because some of them can completely catch you!''Rely on people''Never before visiting this country I’d been invited so many times to the homes of strangers to sleep, eat, drink tea, chat or meet the cousin’s cousin. I also had a few rides by car or motorbike simply because they wanted to be my friends.''Don’t be paranoid'', instead lose yourself in the most hospitable and friendly people in the world!''Learn Bahasa Indonesia''It’s one of the easiest languages you can learn. Obviously, you’re not going to get an expert level in a few weeks, but enough to ask directions, prices and even get a few laughs from people talking about some banalities.''Do you have any question about\xa0The best things to do in Indonesia? Please contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''5 Cool things to do in Flores, Indonesia''Mount Rinjani Trek: Your best adventure in Lombok''Bukit Lawang: the best place to see Orangutans''If you liked this, please share it:''After countless buses, tuk-tuks, ferries and boats through the beautiful''Indonesian islands'', I finally got to Timor.''This island is divided into two parts; the Indonesian province of Timor Barat in the west and the young independent country of''Timor Leste''in the east.''East Timor suffered from colonialism, foreign invasion, genocide, guerrilla combat, revolution and infighting until it gained its independence in 2002.''The Portuguese, as part of their empire, controlled it from 1512-1975, trading sandalwood, spices and other goods. When the Portuguese left, the Indonesians invaded the country with the support of the United States.''After recent political instability and the presence of UN peacekeepers, everything appears to have calmed down and the country is now moving forward.''Find the Best Things to do in East Timor, a young country without tourism, where every day is a new adventure.''1. TIMOR’S CAPITAL: DILI''The city of Dili is''one of the most bizarre places I have ever been''in my travels. It appears to be two cities simultaneously. On one hand are the humble locals who live on 80 dollars a month. On the other hand are the luxury palaces, hundreds of expatriates, and NGO and UN staff who have created an extensive network of bars, restaurants and expensive supermarkets.''It’s interesting to watch these UN cars throughout the city, making one feel like a war journalist.''Beach of Dili, Capital of Timor''2. ATAURO ISLAND''A great destination to escape the madness of Dili for a few days. The island is an''undiscovered gem''with stunning mountains, beautiful beaches and good snorkeling. Most villagers rent cabins and rooms.''Atauro Island. Photo by''Kate Dixon''. Flickr Creative Commons''3. MOUNT RAMELAU''I recommend that you get to the region of Ainaro to''hike Mount Ramelau'', the highest peak in the country. The climb is easy and the views are beautiful. The whole region is made up of small villages on hills and broad valleys.''4. LOSPALOS''In''the eastern part''of the island lies the small town of Lospalos. The architecture here is among the island’s most peculiar, as many of the houses are built on wooden sticks.''It’s a town of strong traditions and some of its people speak Portuguese.''With Angelo''5. JACO ISLAND''You have to cross the whole country to get to the island of Jaco, as it’s located on the easternmost tip of Timor. However, when you arrive you’ll see that the trip was worth it. It offers the best beach in Southeast Asia—''one of the most perfect I’ve seen in my life'', almost on the same level as''the Tobago Cays in Sant Vincent''and the Grenadines. In addition, it’s one of the few beaches in the country where there are no crocodiles. Or so they say.''6. SOE, TIMOR INDONESIA''If you come by land from Indonesia, I recommend''stopping at Soe to visit some of the villages''in the area. The culture and architecture are similar to those of Timor Leste and the people are just as friendly, maybe more so.''Near Soe''Budget for a trip to Timor Leste: $25/day.\xa0Best things to do in East Timor''Despite being more expensive than its neighbor Indonesia, you are able to visit the island for approximately''$25 a day''by adjusting your budget slightly or even hitchhiking.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''These are some options that I loved:''Dili.''Central backpackers''.\xa0Cool rooms and very friendly staff.''Angelo and Jacinta House, in Lospalos. $10''for a room including breakfast and the company of a pretty cool couple.''Bungalows in the Tetuala cooperative (in front of Jaco), $20''for two people.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit East Timor. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''TRANSPORT – How to get to East Timor''From Indonesia''Bus, Kupang-Atambua: $6'', 8 hours.''Bemo, Atambua-Indonesian border, $2'', 1.5 hours.''Within the country''Bus, Timor border-Dili, $6'', 5 hours''Bus, Dili-Lospalos, $9'', 8 hours.''Van, Lospalos-Tetuala, $3'', 1.5 hours.''Boat, Tetuala-Jaco, $6''per person return trip, 5-minute boat ride''FOOD AND DRINK''The food is similar to that in Indonesia, though maybe not as good. Still, you’ll find some great fried rice, chicken and curry dishes. A dish at a street stall costs about''$2.50''.''If you’re a coffee drinker, you’ll be pleased to know that Timor’s coffee is quite delicious and is one of the products that the country is best known for. It is even sourced by international companies like Starbucks.''WHEN TO GO''Any season is good to visit, however bear in mind that''from November to May is rainy season'', potentially causing some complications on the roads.''TRAVEL TIPS. Best things to do in East Timor''VISAS''You will need a visa to enter the country. Although some sites say you can do it at the border, it is not possible. You will need to do this prior to your travels at a Timor Embassy that is closest to you. In my case, Kupang in Indonesia.''TRAVEL WITH TIME''The poor condition of the roads and the infrequency of buses may incur delays in all your plans. Remember it’s an undeveloped country and each step is an adventure.''FIND A JOB''If you are traveling throughout Southeast Asia and plan to settle down somewhere, Dili offers many opportunities for both qualified and skilled workers.''Did you like The\xa0Best things to do in East Timor? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''If you liked this, please share it:''Hiking Mount Ramelau is one of the most rewarding activities you can do on your''visit to Timor Leste''.''No need to be a mountaineer in order to reach the summit and witness some truly beautiful views.''The entire region is very authentic'', comprising of small villages throughout valleys and hills.''Hiking Mount Ramelau on a budget''The idea is to get to''the town of Hatobuilico''at least one day before, so that you can explore the nearby villages and spend the night there. The people of this region are particularly friendly and the kids will love to play with you, and even ask you for photos.''Map''The trek to the Mount Ramelau and later to''the Peak Tataimalau at 2,963 meters''is not a difficult walk.''For me, it was a little more complicated because the night before some fellow travelers and I had a little too much local liquor, but that’s another story.''I highly recommend you wake up early to get to the top at dawn.''In our case, we were lucky enough to encounter a unique pilgrimage that we were told occurs only once or twice a year.''This place has great relevance in the local culture as House of the Spirits and a meeting place with ancestors. The celebration, however, had Christian aspects, a legacy derived from the Portuguese.''Thousands of people came to''the statue of the Virgin Mary''that crowns the mountain, followed by a colorful celebration in which everyone participated.''Virgen Mary crowns the top''ACCOMMODATION''There are several''Guest Houses in Hatobuilico. About 10 -15 dollars''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET TO MOUNT RAMELAU''Getting to Hatabuilico by public transport is very complicated.''There is a 3 hour''bus from Dili to Maubisse for about 5 dollars''that you can catch. Another bus then continues up to the junction towards Hatobuilico but from this junction you cannot go any further by public transport. As I had no other option, I walked the rest of the way with my heavy backpack for about 3 hours. On the way back however, I was lucky that a car stopped to offer me a lift.''FOOD AND DRINK''In the village there is not a wide range of restaurants to choose from, however if you ask, the hostel can prepare something for you.''Beware of the local liquor, it´s strong, yet tastes like water and trust me, it complicates the climbing.''WATHER. WHEN TO GO''The best season to visit is''from June to September''when there is not much rain.''TRAVEL TIPS FOR HIKING MOUNT RAMELAU''GUIDES''A guide is not necessary at all.''The climb can be completed in 3 hours''from Hatabuilico and the path is clearly marked. You will need a decent torch to follow the path at night.''WARM CLOTHES''At the top of Mount Ramelau, it can be quite windy and cold until the sun rises. If you don’t have warm enough clothes, taking a blanket from the hostel can be a good idea.''HITCHHIKING''When returning back, it is a wise idea to ask the villagers, hostel, etc. if someone is leaving for Dili so you can get a lift. People here are very friendly so no need to feel shy.''Got a lift on a busy Van… 13 people?''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit East Timor. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Things to do in Indonesia''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Asian expedition!''Did you like\xa0Hiking Mount Ramelau? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''How to Climb Iliniza Norte: All you need to know''Annapurna base camp trek: Step by step guide''How to Hike the Cerro Torre & Fitz Roy Trek f...''Mount Rinjani Trek: Your best adventure in Lombok''If you liked this, please share it:''Stay away a bit from the touristy Bali, Gili or Lombok and get to know the true''Indonesia''. A land full of''emotions, friendly people and ancient traditions.''Discover''the beautiful island of Flores''among giant dragons, surreal underwater worlds and beautiful volcanoes.''5 Cool Things to do in Flores''1. MEET THE KOMODO DRAGONS''They are''the largest reptile''s in the world. It’s said that their bite is as deadly as the worst imaginable infection and they have dominated these lands since ancient times. Reaching up to''three meters''in length and weighing more than''70 kilos'', these are formidable creatures. Although their hearing is not very well developed, they can use their tongues to detect preys.''2. DIVE IN THE KOMODO PARK FROM LABUANBAJO''In my opinion, the best place I’ve dived in Indonesia. Don’t miss dives at''“Castle Rock”'',''“Crystal Rock”''or the''“Manta Point”''because it’s a real festival of underwater life and color.''3. BAJAWA AREA''My favorite part of the island, Bajawa and the nearby villages, allow you to get closer to the local culture, know their traditions, their architecture and their customs.''I recommend you to''rent a motorbike and get lost among the villages''. It’d be good to learn some basic Bahasa for a better contact with this people.''4. MOUNT KELIMUTU''Although the entire island of Flores is really beautiful,''Mount Kelimutu is unmatched''. Three volcanoes give amazing and changing colors to the water of their lakes.''The sun rises up and the water starts to get color, shape and density. It’s a spiritual and sacred place for the Indians. When someone dies, his spirit goes into one of these lakes and immerses in its magical waters forever.''5. VILLAGES AROUND ENDE''The city of Ende didn’t seem so interesting, however, there are several beaches and nearby towns such as''Wolotopo'', which are worth visiting. Ende is a good place to find a boat to Sumba or Kupang, Timor.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''These are some options that I loved:''Labuanbajo:''Dragon Dive Komodo''. Amazing place!''Bajawa:''Madja Edelweis''. Breakfast included and clean rooms.''Moni:''Antoneri Lodge''. Great location.''Ende:''F Hostel''. Really cool place.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Flores. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET THERE. THINGS TO DO IN FLORES.''I got to Flores from Lombok, overland. It’s a long ride, but it can be done without problems.''Journey Mataram (Lombok) – Bima (Sumbawa): $16''. This includes two buses (one night bus) and a ferry ride. 14 hours.''Minibus Bima – Sape. $6''. 2 hours, normal price should be about $3, but there was nothing else if I didn’t take this one and I would have missed the connecting ferry. It was like a charter.''Ferry Sape – Labuanbajo. $6''. 8 hours.''Next Read:''Hiking Mount Rinjani in Lombok''Do you have any question about 5\xa0Cool things to do in Flores? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''8 Best things to do in Indonesia. Travel guide''If you liked this, please share it:''My journey in Indonesia continued . After visiting''the marvelous Mount Bromo'', my body was asking for another dose of active and amazing volcanoes.''This time, the challenge would be bigger, a small hike to reach''the summit of Mount Rinjani'', which along with Mount Kelimutu''in Flores''is one of the most beautiful places you can find in Indonesia.''The Mount Rinjani Trek can be easily done with an agency or independently. In this case, I decided to go with an agency, mainly because I was traveling without the appropriate gear. The agencies''provide a guide, sleeping bag, tent and several porters''who carry all the food and cook basic but tasty Indonesian dishes.''Map''Mount Rinjani Trek in 3 days / 2 nights:''Day 1: Senaru – Camp 1''A not too hard day, which goes progressively from Senaru’s 600 meters''to the 2,600 meters of the crater rim''.''The beginning of the trek passes through a landscape of tropical forest with some more open areas including rice paddies and steep slopes. The landscape becomes more arid and rugged as we approach the crater rim.''Day 2: Camp 1 – Camp 2''There are beautiful landscapes of huge cliffs in the thick mountain fog.''In the morning, we can see''the perfect picture of Mount Rinjani'', the lagoon and the relatively new volcano,''Gunung Baru'', inside. We get down to the lake and visit a nearby hot springs, and then reach Camp 2 where we spend the night.''Incredible camping site''Day 3: Camp 2 – Summit of Mount Rinjani\xa0at 3.726 mts – Sembalun Lawang''While the trek wasn’t particularly technical until now, I have to admit that the last part is quite hard. Each step up to the top is a battle against the cold, wind and even vertigo.''Once on the top, watching the mountains of neighboring Bali and Sumbawa, as the sun begins to color the stage, you feel that''all the effort was worthwhile.''It may not be the highest mountain in the world, but still above the clouds and watching that show it doesn’t matter, for me I was on''top of the world''for a moment.''The last climb is really hard''From the top of the Mount Rinjani''Amazing Mount Baru''HOW TO GET THERE. MOUNT RINJANI TREK''Although not frequent, there is a''bus from Mataram to Anyar which costs about $2''and takes 2.5 hours.''From Anyar to Senaru several vans or motortaxis will take you up for $1 or $2''. If you go with an agency, they will pick you up and take you from Sembulan Lawang back to Senaru.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''These are some options that I loved in Mataram and Senaru:''Mataram:''Kurnia Jaya Hotel''. Great option for couples. It’s clean and comfortable.''Senaru:''Anak Rinjani''. Beautiful place with breakfast included.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Indonesia. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''WHEN TO GO''The best season to climb Mount Rinjani is from April to November'', when the rains are less frequent. The park may be closed from December to March.''INFO AND TIPS. HIKING MOUNT RINJANI.''Permits''All visitors must pay an''entrance fee to the park of 150,000 rupees'', around $10.''Go independently''For those who want to do it independently, without guides I recommend''starting by Sembalun Lawang''. Otherwise, starting in Senaru, some people may tell you that you should go with a guide and make some trouble.''The guide is not necessary''at all, the path is well marked and there are many people on the route so you can always follow some other group.''Warm clothes''The climb to the top is done at night, so it is very important to have good warm clothes, gloves and a hat as the wind at that altitude is very cold until the sunrise begins.''Gear''Besides good boots and warm clothes, it’s important to bring a torch for the night, a swimsuit to have a bath in the hot springs and toilet paper.''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Indonesian expedition!''Next Read:''Hiking the Mentawai Islands in Sumatra''Do you have any question about\xa0Mount Rinjani Trek? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''8 Best things to do in Indonesia. Travel guide''If you liked this, please share it:''Located in East Java,''the Mount Bromo''or “Gunung Bromo” in Bahasa Indonesia, is one of the most striking images you will see on your journey through Southeast Asia.''The''Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park''consists of several active volcanoes. Sun rays make their way through the clouds and begin to suggest curves, cliffs, desert sand and steaming volcanic craters. The force of nature in its purest form. Groups of people watch the volcanos as though they were direct gateways to hell.''Mount Bromo in photos. Incredible Indonesia!''From this viewpoint you can see the large caldera formed by the volcanoes. Just in front, forming a perfectly proportioned cone and located in the center of the photo, we have the''Gunung Batok''.''Mount Bromo, showing its large crater; it’s the first volcano on the left.''Once we descend to the caldera, which is a great desert of volcanic ash, we look closely at the Gunung Batok.''Later, there are some stairs to climb up to''the top of Mount Bromo''. The views are great, you can see the sulfurous waters forming his gut and walk around the edge to have different perspectives.''View from the Mount Bromo''It’s impressive to see the great caldera from the top.''Some people throw flowers, fruits and other objects as religious offerings to the god of the mountain. Later, these sellers get down to get the flowers back to sell them again.''HOW TO GET TO MOUNT BROMO''To visit the Park of Mount Bromo you have to reach''the village of Lawang Cemoro''. You can find accommodation for around''$10 in a basic room''.''To get there,''you first have to go to Probolinggo.''Probolinggo is 2 or 3 hours by bus from the city of''Surabaya''. The bus without air conditioning costs no more than $1, and the air-conditioned bus costs $2.''From Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang there are''small 10-seat vans''and they usually leave when full. The price per trip for the whole van is''about $20''. If you wait until it’s full, it shouldn’t cost more than''$2 per person''.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''Before you get to Mount Bromo, you’ll probably stay in Yakarta or Surabaya for a few nights. Most hostels will cost you $7-$15 \xa0for a single, double or dormitory.''These are some options that I loved:''Yakarta:''Teduh Hostel Kota Tua''. Great atmosphere and nice rooms.''Surabaya:''My studio''. Super cool place.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Indonesia. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''TIPS. MOUNT BROMO IN PHOTOS''Jeep tours or guided tours''Probably, some people will offer their private service as a guide to take you through the craters and tell you the history of the volcano. In my opinion, not worth it.''You can hire a Jeep''that will take you to the viewpoint of Penanjakan to see the sunrise and then down to the large caldera and wait until you visit the crater and come back.''The price for the Jeep is around $30'', but you can share it with more travelers. Try to put together a group the day before and then be able to negotiate better with the driver of the Jeep.''Bring some warm clothes''While you’re in a tropical country like''Indonesia'', up here, watching the sun rise over the Mount Bromo, it’s freezing! Bring some good clothes and a blanket or sleeping bag to get covered from the wind.''Next Read:''Hiking Mount Rinjani in Lombok''Do you have any question about\xa0“Mount Bromo in Photos”? Please, contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''8 Best things to do in Indonesia. Travel guide''If you liked this, please share it:''Getting to Siberut is not an easy task. There are just a few cargo ships to go there and the schedule is non-existent.''I can do it; I thought. I took''the bus from Medan''and 24 hours later I arrived in the city of Padang,''Sumatra''. Ask and ask, call the port, contact hotels, and nothing. Noone knew if there was a boat to''the Mentawai islands'', nor from where it may depart. I gave up. I went to a small hotel to have a rest and suddenly the miracle happened. The guy at the desk was an angel sent by God and informed me of a boat leaving in two hours from a nearby port. There we go, Mentawai!''The trek of the Mentawai islands is one of the hardest yet''most rewarding experiences of my time in Asia''. Be prepared for long walks through rain and mud, sleeping directly on the wooden floor and eating “Sagu” and “Durian” day after day.''The reward; to live with the Mentawais. A tribe of eccentric traditions and the demonic aspect that inhabits the islands for over 4000 years.''The Mentawai still retain their traditional culture in the form of natural medicine, tattoos decorating their bodies, sharpening teeth, and artisan food preparation.''Map. Trekking the Mentawai islands''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget. 6 days Itinerary''Day 1. Padang – Muara Siberut''After 10 hours by boat,''I got to Muara Siberut''. Although it’s the largest population of the island, the Mentawai culture here is almost non-existent. The Indonesian government is populating the island with the called “transmigrasi”; people brought from other Indonesian islands, whose function is to gradually edge out the local cultures.''Here is where''I found my guide for the jungle''(a guide whom I won’t recommend since I found him very bad).''Day 2. Muara – Traditional Mentawai Longhouse (Uma Mister Lala)''Once everything was negotiated with the guide (prepare to shell out some big bucks, this I’ll explain in the budget section),''we left early from Muara Siberut''.''The first part of the journey was done by tuk-tuk up to a beautiful river. From there, we boarded a small boat and continued 2 hours upstream to reach the''Mister Lala’s Uma''(that’s how they call their longhouses).''In that Uma, I met all the Mentawai family and I was just amazed. It was my first contact with them, and I couldn’t stop looking at their tattoos, clothes, sharp teeth and the way they smoke cigarette after cigarette.''Day 3. Mister Lala’s Uma – Salomó’s Uma''This was a tough day, many hours of walking through the jungle, with heat and humidity that made each step heavier than the previous. It’s important to wear good shoes since it’s a jungle path, but then you see the Mentawais go''barefoot all the time''. The path is exceptionally muddy everywhere, so there may also be some slips and falls, but no worries, all part of the adventure!''Eventually, we reached the Salamo’s house, one of the most respected Mentawai in the region, who even had participated in a reality show in Spain. Here I could see what life is like in a Mentawai house; Customs, family hierarchy or how they kill animals and cook. It was getting very interesting.''Great Salomo''Day 4. Activities in Salamo’s Uma''This was one of the best days''. We went looking for some fruits deep in the jungle, we “tried” to hunt an animal, they taught me how to prepare the poison used for the arrows and also how to prepare the “Sagu”; a typical Mentawai meal, consisting of a white mass made from the trunk of a tree. You must try it, but it’s absolutely tasteless.''Day 5. Salamo’s Uma''We left pretty early and after much walking,''we reached a small village''. The houses are basic, the streets full of animals and people very friendly.''Here I got to know quite a few Mentawais; these people are amazing. They spend all their time smoking and arguing. All the kids wanted to play with me, so I let them guide me to a small nearby waterfall, a nice place to swim in the middle of the jungle.''Day 6. Village Mentawai – Muara Siberut''The last day. We walked to the river to take the small canoe that would''bring us back to Muara''. The adventure ended, but my sense of satisfaction had no limits. Test Passed!''BUDGET FOR HIKING THE MENTAWAI ISLANDS''I spent about $35/day, including the guide, food, transport and accommodation in local houses.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''During the Trek, you stay in the Umas, which are traditional wooden houses, and you usually sleep directly on the ground or perhaps on a blanket. There are thousands of mosquitoes and no bathroom: the forest is a big bathroom!''In Muara Siberut, you can stay at''Hotel Siberut:''$8 for as simple room for two people.''Before you get to the Mentawai Islands, you’ll probably stay in Padang for one or two nights.''I liked this place in Padang:''Riverside Hostel''. Clean, nicely decorated, great staff and comfortable rooms.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Mentawai. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''TRANSPORTATION. GETTING TO SIBERUT''From Muara Siberut there are theoretically''several ferries a week to Padang'', however, do not rely on the information that you find online, or you hear before arriving in Padang. You should go ahead and then ask for information directly in the city or call a travel agency in Padang.''I had a pretty decent''ferry on the onward way for $10.''On the way back I took an old and completely overloaded wooden ferry also for around $10.''MENTAWAI FOOD''The Mentawai specialities are “Sagu”; a white dough made from some kind of tree with no taste, and the “Durian” a fruit that''smells bad and tastes even worse''. When they have guests, they usually prepare something better, so you’ll probably have a chicken or perhaps some pig meat.''WEATHER. WHEN TO GO''The driest season goes from June to September'', although this is a tropical island, so be prepared to get wet anyway.''TIPS FOR HIKING THE MENTAWAI ISLANDS''Booking a tour''In Padang, there are several hotels that can organize tours from the city. Obviously, this option is''very expensive''and not for a backpacker’s budget.''If you want to do it on your own, more cheaply, I recommend you go to Muara Siberut and''directly hire a local guide''. Almost all speak Basic English and can explain the details of what you book. Of course, you have to bargain hard because they want to charge you a lot. Here everything works as a community and each family that you visit gets some of the money.''I paid about''$35 a day all inclusive''; the guide, the tuk-tuk ride, the boat ride, stays and meals for all the days. I know it’s not cheap, but it’s the cheapest option to do so.''Cigarettes''I suppose you’ll want to take lots of pictures of these amazing characters. Well,''the currency; cigarettes''. They are kind of smoking junkies and will be happy to pose for all your photos as long as you give them a lot of cigarettes. I took two cartons and returned with nothing!''Anti-mosquito''This is an area with quite a number of''malaria infections and other diseases''transmitted through mosquito bites, so it’s important to have a good mosquito repellent.''Important stuff''Bring a torch, toilet paper, several batteries for the camera, enough clothes, excellent boots, an insulator or a small sleeping bag you can use as a mattress and some plastic bags to protect all your valuables, because believe me; You will end up wet!''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Asian\xa0expedition!''Next Read:''Hiking Mount Rinjani in Lombok''Did you like\xa0Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''7 reasons why you should visit Sumatra''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''Hike to La Soufriere volcano in Saint Vincent''Trekking the Huayhuash Circuit on a budget. Peru&#''Although formerly living in several forests around Southeast Asia, nowadays orangutans can only be found on the islands of''Sumatra and Borneo'', and sadly their existence continues under threat. These primates can live up to 35 years, measure 1.5 meters and weigh up to 90 kilos!''There are several rehabilitation centers, both in''Sumatra''and Borneo, which help the development of a healthy population of orangutans.''During my trip to Asia, I visited several centers and honestly, although the experience is always rewarding and the work they do is great, I felt a little disappointment as a spectator.''In Borneo, I visited the Sepilok rehabilitation center (in Sabah) and later the Semenggoh Rehabilitation Center (in Sarawak). In both, you can see the orangutans quite close and in quite large numbers. Sometimes they get very close, and can literally walk beside you. In my opinion, the only problem is that it gives the feeling of being in a zoo rather than in the wild. They are fed at certain times on a platform so all the tourists can take hundreds of photos.''I like people to come here since the money of the entrance helps the center, but if you really want to see orangutans in the wild, I recommend you to get to''the village of Bukit Lawang''for a unique experience. The best place to see orangutans!''The village is within the national park of''Taman Gunung Leuser'', northern Sumatra. It’s a region of great beauty, full of mountains, rivers and volcanoes. In this park there is also a rehabilitation centre, where the orangutans are fed, but I decided to visit them in the jungle.''Almost all Bukit Lawang hostels or lodges have a guide service or can contact one. Obviously, the orangutans are not far from the area, so the guides know where to find them. But the experience of walking hours through the thick jungle, mud and humidity to find orangutans jumping from tree to tree, eating leaves on a branch or playing together is priceless.''Bukit Lawang: The best place to see orangutans''And it’s not only orangutans that you will see! The flora and fauna here is plentiful and beautiful.''Personally, this experience is much more rewarding than watching them eating bananas on a wooden platform completely surrounded by tourists.''Another option is to''visit the Kinabatangan River'', in the region of''Sabah in Borneo'', but we were unlucky and did not find any orangutans. In any case, the banks of this river are full of many other species such as Probosquis monkeys, macaques, elephants, snakes, wild pigs, huge Hornbills and many others.''It is 100% recommended''.''Borneo’s Hornbill''Borneo’s Proboscis''If you want to know the orangutans, either in a rehabilitation center, in the jungle, in the Kinabatangan river, in Borneo or in Sumatra, I recommend you''come to these beautiful islands and enjoy the experience.''Consider''Everyone likes to have nice pictures of the orangutans, but please respect their space, don’t get too close, don’t stress the animals and never feed them.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''I stayed in''Bukit Lawang Indah''. There are cheaper options, but I loved that place.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the Sumatra. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Hiking Mount Rinjani in Lombok''Did you like Bukit Lawang: the best place to see Orangutans? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''7 reasons why you should visit Sumatra''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''8 Best things to do in Indonesia. Travel guide''If you liked this, please share it:''One of the least visited islands of''Indonesia'', Sumatra is nevertheless''one of the most attractive''.''Be prepared to walk in the rainforest and come face to face with orangutans in the wild, dive among multicolored corals full of sharks, have a swim in the waters of lakes created in the crater of a volcano or visit one of the most primitive tribes of all Asia. This is Sumatra, a place you’ll never forget!''The reasons\xa0why you should visit Sumatra''1-PULAU WEH''The small island of Pulau Weh is''the perfect destination for divers''. The place is just beautiful, with several white-sand beaches and green mountains around the villages. Accommodation, food and diving are very cheap. This is the typical place where you go for three days and end up staying two weeks, as happened to me.''2-BANDA ACEH''Located in the northernmost point, this city has an''strong Muslim tradition''and is governed by the application of the Islamic law, known as Sharia. You can see that life in Banda Aceh goes around mosques, which are plentiful and very beautiful.''This city was completely''devastated in the 2004 tsunami'', so almost everything you see has been rebuilt. The main attractions are the Museum of the tsunami, the boat on the house and the big ferry that was taken by the giant waves 3 kilometers inside the city.''3-BUKIT LAWANG''The small tourist village of Bukit Lawang revolves around one thing;''orangutan watching''. The surrounding forests are inhabited by these red-haired primates and it’s possible, with the help of a good guide, to see them in the wild.''There is also the option of doing a two-day trek, where the first day you go for the orangutan watching and the next day you go down the river in a giant rubber donut.''4-BERASTAGI''Get to this quiet town to visit the nearby''smoking volcanoes''. The trek to''Gunung Sibayak''is simple, can be done in one day and will let you see the sulfurous smoke coming through the cracks of the mountain.''5-MENTAWAI ISLANDS''One of the reasons I came to Sumatra was to''hike the Mentawai islands''. It’s amazing to live a few days with these people, learn some of their customs and feel wild amid the thick jungle.''One of the best experiences''in Southeast Asia.''6-DANAU MANINJAU''Located''near the city of Bukittingi,''Lake Maninjau\xa0i’s a good choice for some relax after visiting the Mentawai islands. There’s really nothing to do here besides walking, eating fish and wandering arond the small villages. However, that’s precisely the charm of the place.''7-WHY YOU SHOULD REALLY VISIT SUMATRA: ITS PEOPLE''Leaving aside the beauty of the forests, rivers or volcanoes, what really makes this land an amazing place, is its people.''The hospitality has no limits in Sumatra'', people will greet you, they will invite you home to meet their family or just to spend some time talking to you. And yes, they’ll ask you for your facebook after talking just two sentences.''They are great! Enjoy these wonderful people and share with them unforgettable moments.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''These are some options that I loved in Sumatra:''Banda Aceh:''Crystall Guest house''. Simple rooms, but super friendly owner!''Pulau Weh:''Olalá Bungalows''. Beautiful place with awesome views at great price.''Medan:''Dazhong Backpackers''. Cool atmosphere and cheap rooms.''Padang:''Riverside Hostel''. Clean, nicely decorated, great staff and comfortable rooms.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Sumatra. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Hiking Mount Rinjani in Lombok''Have you been to Sumatra? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''Bukit Lawang: the best place to see Orangutans''8 Best things to do in Indonesia. Travel guide''If you liked this, please share it:''Although the possibilities are endless in a country like this, I’ll give you some ideas of itineraries for''Indonesia''to make your planning easier for these beautiful islands.''Indonesia travel itinerary. Ideas \xa0for four weeks (4 weeks).''For a month in the country, I recommend starting on the island of Java. Visit the''chaotic city of Jakarta''for a couple of days (I would not waste much time here).''Travel to the central area of the island and visit the''ruins of Borobodur'', then you can go to Surabaya to reach''Mount Bromo''(must see) and then cross to''the island of Bali''. Personally I did not visit Bali because i was tired of seeing so many tourists every day and I went straight to Lombok.''If you love mountains, you can not miss the''climb up to Mount Rinjani'', a really awesome place.''Later, you can go through Sumbawa and take another ferry to reach''Flores''. A beautiful island, that although it is getting more touristy, still retains its strong local culture. Here you can''find the Komodo dragons'', amazing coral dive, visit traditional villages and climb to''the Mount Kelimutu''.''Mount Bromo''Amazing Mount Baru''The Komodo Dragon''Near Bajawa''Mount Kelimutu''Indonesia travel itinerary. Ideas \xa0for six\xa0weeks (6 weeks).''Extending the route of a month, you can take the ferry from Ende to Kupang, in''Timor Barat''. You can visit some beautiful''villages near the town of Soe''.''If you continue your trip, you can make a''short visit to East Timor''and get to know a new country that surprisingly seems it hasn’t changed in years. I recommend the''climb to the Monte Ramelau'', the highest peak in the country.''Kids on the way to Mount Ramelau''Jaco Island''Near Soe''Indonesia travel itinerary. Ideas \xa0for eight\xa0weeks (8 weeks).''Extending the route of six weeks, add''two more weeks to visit Papua''. Usually there are flights from Kupang to Jayapura with an scale in Sulawesi.''In Papua, you can’t miss the''Baliem Valley Trek'', the latest adventure in Indonesia.''Baliem Valley''People of Papua''Visas''You usually''get a one month visa''at the airport that you can extend for another month. If you organise it in an Indonesian Embassy before arriving in the country, you can ask for two months straight away.''To get to Timor Leste, you need to get a visa in the city of Kupang, in Timor Barat.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''You can get a bed in a''basic room for $6''in most of the country, but costs can be higher in big cities or places like Papua.''These are some options that I can recommend:''Yakarta:''Teduh Hostel Kota Tua''. Clean rooms, free breakfast, great location, and friendly staff.''Banda Aceh, Sumatra:''Crystall Guest house''. Simple rooms, but super friendly owner!''Mataram, Lombok:''Kurnia Jaya Hotel''. Great option for couples. It’s clean and comfortable.''Labuanbajo, Flores:''Dragon Dive Komodo''. Really good place!''Dili, Timor:''Dili Central Backpackers''. Great location, plus nice staff and clean rooms.''Jayapura, Papua:''Homestay Galpera Papua''. Cool place and one of the cheapest options in Jayapura.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit Indonesia. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''Next Read:''Paragliding in Pokhara, Nepal''Do you have any questions about\xa0Indonesia travel itinerary? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''8 Best things to do in Indonesia. Travel guide''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''5 Cool things to do in Flores, Indonesia''If you liked this, please share it:''Are you ready for an exciting ride? India is one of those places that''every traveler wants to visit''at some point in their life. A place of contrasts that won’t leave you indifferent. With its stunning mountains, ancient cultures, dazzling temples, virgin forests, sacred rivers and great food, it’s one of the most rewarding countries you can visit.''On the other hand, I recommend patience;''the culture is very different''and I assure you that it will test your limits again and again. Every time I went there, I felt like I couldn’t stand it and I needed to leave. However, just a few days later, I had a terrible desire to return.''A trip to India is a drug that can overwhelm you, but undeniably''creates a great addiction''.''Follow this India travel guide and experience the best of each region!''Must see places:''1. DELHI''For most people, this is usually the first stop in the country, and although''New Delhi''can be quite shocking, in between all the chaos and dirt''you can find some really nice places''and mosques that are worth visiting. Don’t miss the Jama Masjid mosque and the Red Fort.''2. THE TAJ MAHAL IN AGRA''The greatest icon of the country''and one of the most magical places in the world is definitely a “must see” on your visit to India. The shapes of the Taj Mahal, ironically a mausoleum that was actually built for love,''will leave you hypnotized''as you watch the stones change color with the sun as it rises over the horizon. And if you are visiting the city, you definitely shouldn’t miss the Agra Fort.''3. THE GOLDEN TEMPLE OF AMRITSAR''Created in 1577 by “Guru Ras Dam” on a lake that surrounds the temple, it’s a sacred place of pilgrimage for Sikhs and''one of those magical places that you just can’t miss in India''.''You must remove your shoes, with the rest of the pilgrims, and cross through a shallow foot bath, cleaning your feet before entering the temple grounds. You are also required to keep your head covered (they sell very cheap bandanas that are actually great souvenirs) and follow some basic other rules to visit it. Smoking is very much frowned upon within 1 kilometer of the temple. Definitely do not miss a free meal at the “langar.”''Golden Temple, Amritsar. Photo by''Jasleen kaur''. Creative commons''4. THE PROVINCE OF LADAKH, LITTLE TIBET''This is a destination for the most adventurous, right''in the heart of the Himalayas'',''Ladakh''has the most''amazing trekking routes''in the region.''Imagine 7,000 meters mountains surrounded by rivers, impossible paths, local people with their yaks (they look like shaggy buffalos) and Buddhist temples decorating the landscape. I recommend''exploring the Markha Valley''.''5. RAJASTHAN''Even though it’s one of the more touristy regions in India,''travelling through Rajasthan''gives you the chance to admire the local''people in bright and colorful clothes'', the world-famous gypsies and their magical dances, ancient cities with large fortifications and, of course, the endless desert.''6. VARANASI''The most sacred city of India'', a center of pilgrimage for millions of Hindus, from the most devoted Sadhus to even the more casual followers, this is pure India. It’s everything you could have imagined about this country before your trip, but all put together in one place.''Strolling along the different ghats (the sets of stairs all along the Ganges river), you can see everything from farmers washing their buffalo, to boat owners yelling at each other over parking spaces, to local families doing their laundry, to goats stealing and eating the flowers that adorn the''bodies being prepared for cremation''. Loud, dirty, beautiful, magical, overwhelming, inspiring, exhausting, and unforgettable.''Things to do in Varanasi!''7. AJANTA AND ELLORA''Amazing''Buddhist caves full of history and hard work''. Monks worked for decades carving into the mountainside, building large galleries and temples, full of ornate sculptures and beautiful stonework.''8. HAMPI''Located in a spectacular setting, the temples of''Hampi will leave you amazed''. I recommend renting a bike or scooter and touring around the temples and nearby towns.''9. THE BEACHES OF GOA''A good stop before you leave, the famous 60’s destination of Goa still keeps that''hippie/new-agey atmosphere''that fascinates yoga and rave enthusiasts.''Another good place for lovers of yoga and meditation is the city of Rishikesh which, being in the lower Himalayas, has a much cooler climate.''India travel guide. Budget:''You can usually travel in India for''15-20 dolars/day''or so.''PLAN YOUR TRIP''ACCOMMODATION IN HOSTELS''Generally, you can get a bed in a dormitory or a super basic and usually pretty''dirty room for about 3 dollars''in most of the cities, Goa would be an exception where the dormitories go for about 5 or 6 dollars and the bungalows for about 8 -10 dollars.''These are some options that I loved:''Delhi:''Amigos India.''Varanasi:''Roadhouse Hostel''.''Agra:''Panda friends.''Hampi:''Rambo Guest House.''Udaipur:''Moustache Udaipur.''Jodhpur:''BedPool Hostel.''ACCOMMODATION IN AIRBNB''A good option for couples and groups, with rooms and apartments at great prices. If you sign up through my link, you will get''$35 of Airbnb credit''!''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit India. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''TRANSPORT''You’ll have a hard time finding any place in India that isn’t accessible with public transportation. The British left an extensive network of railways, and there is a bus to each and every tiny village in the country.''A ride of about 15 hours by bus from a place like''Hampi to Goa costs about 10 dollars''. However, the train is much cheaper. A 20 hour journey between''Varanasi and Jalgaon goes for about 7 dollars''in a bunk.''Riding in the “unreserved” cars on the train is so cheap it’s almost free, but is extremely crowded and not for the faint of heart. For those willing to do it, packing like sardines into a train is a truly authentic Indian experience.''FOOD''A very important part of the trip is the food, and there are so many good things that one wouldn’t even know where to start.''The classic''“Thali”''has rice, lentils, vegetables, different sauces, costs about one dollar, and is traditionally “all you can eat,” but in the more tourist-oriented restaurants they often only serve a certain amount.''The''“Panner Butter Masala”'', which is cheese in a spicy tomato sauce, accompanied by chapati (Indian bread) and rice costs about two dollars and the''“Lassi”'', which is a type of fresh cow (or sometimes buffalo) yogurt drink, mixed with sugar and spices, costs half a dollar.''I recommend drinking a lot of''tea (chai)'', which is prepared with ginger, pepper, cloves and milk and costs just a few cents.''Prices vary from one restaurant to another and also from the city, but cheap stuff can be found at the street stalls. If you want the cheap food that the locals eat, ask where to find a “dhaba.”''INDIA TRAVEL GUIDE. WHEN TO GO:''You’d be wise to''avoid the monsoon season from June to October'', as rains can be heavy, especially in the south. However, this is the best time to visit the Ladkah region since the rest of the year is too cold and the roads are completely covered with snow.''TRAVEL TIPS:''PATIENCE''A trip to India is not for everyone, and the most important things are patience and respect for the culture.''Try not to get nervous''when they stop you in the street to sell things, when they grab your arm, or when they come up to you and stare in silence, or throw trash on the ground by your feet, or when they push and shove you while trying to pack into the local trains.''If you spend some time to get to know them, you’ll see that they are really sweet, nice, and easy going people and most of the time they have a big heart.''GET EVERYTHING READY''Weather conditions can change''from the extreme heat of the desert to the freezing cold of the mountains, so bring enough of different kinds of clothes, sunscreen, first aid, etc. And remember to drink plenty of (clean) water!''PURCHASE TICKETS ONLINE''If you wanna travel by train but it seems that all the tickets are sold out when you check online, don’t worry;''places for foreigners often don’t appear on the Official Railways website'', so you have to buy it straight from an agency (for a small fee) or just go to the station.''DON’T BE PARANOID ABOUT FOOD''Personally, I eat the street food all the time, but some travelers tend to only go to restaurants. I can understand why they do, but in the end, almost everyone goes through an episode of diarrhea in India (it’s a rite of passage), so''don’t worry too much''about it and eat whatever you want, as long as it keeps “some” hygiene standards.''BE CAREFUL OF WHAT YOU BOOK''If you want to hire a tour,''double check that everything you need is included''and make sure that it’s a respected company with references. There are a lot of self-proclaimed “tour agents” who would be happy to just take your money and disappear.''Read next:''Indonesia Travel guide''Official Website of''India’s Ministry of Tourism''If you have any questions about this india travel guide, feel free to contact me.''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Markha Valley Trek on a budget. Learn how to do it...''If you liked this, please share it:''Ladakh, the Indian region where cultures merge and the mountains rise up to touch the sky, is a magical place that will make you feel free, where the air is pure and the rivers run deep.''Known as Little Tibet'', the thousands of refugees who live here will make you forget you are in India. The eyes of its people are soulful, buddhist monasteries replace Hindu Temples, and Monks replace gurus.''Discover this region that can’t be compared in beauty and tradition, and you’ll fall in love with this country again.''Top places to visit in Ladakh''1. THE PALACE OF LEH''The capital of the region shows beauty in every corner. The ocher colour of the homes camouflages between the mountains, and the prayers of the temples create a surreal atmosphere. There’s a''great community of Tibetan refugees'', all mixed with many Muslims who look more Pakistani than Indian.''Inspired by the Potala Palace in Lhasa,''the Royal Palace in Leh''is at the top of the city, and it has a beautiful panoramic view. If you go up, take it easy, the city of Leh is at 3,500 meters high and the Palace at 3,800, so I recommend a day of acclimatization before getting there.''2. THE NUBRA VALLEY''Also known as the valley of flowers, it’s a beautiful place to admire on your way to the highest road pass in the world,''the Khardung La''. I recommend hiring a tour that allows you to come up here on a Jeep and bike down to Leh. An adventure where the adrenaline willl pump out of every pore of your body, where the curves are closed and the cliffs are terrific.''Nubra Valley. Photo by''Nhi Dang''. Flickr''3. THE ZANSKAR VALLEY''Come to this beautiful, remote region with stunning views of huge ravines and isolated temples along a great river. This area is closed to traffic most of the year due to heavy snowfall, but the most adventurous can take the winter trekking''over the frozen river''.''Zanskar Valley. Photo by''Cortomaltese1999''. Flickr''4. MONASTERY TIKSEY''In addition to a monastery, it’s also a museum where you can admire''precious Buddhist paintings and engravings'', and learn about this ancient culture. It features a''large figure of Buddha''painted in gold, that will leave you spellbound.''5. THE MARKHA VALLEY TREK''If you love mountains and adventure'', you can’t miss the''Markha Valley Hike''.''This route takes you through stunning scenery, snowy mountains, isolated villages, exceptional people, frozen rivers, ancient monasteries and unique experiences. Without a doubt, the best thing I did in all''my time in India''along with the visit to''the holy city of Varanasi''.''6. SHEY MONASTERY''Located a few kilometres from the town of Leh, this monastery was once the residence of the royal family. Besides having several religious structures and ornaments, it’s famous for the huge statue of Buddha in its interior.''TRAVEL BUDGET. PLACES TO VISIT IN LADAKH''ACCOMMODATION''During my stay in Leh, I stayed in the''Babu Guest House: 4 dollars''for a basic room with breakfast, great views of the Palace and super friendly staff.''If you do the Markha Valley Hike, I recommend staying in family homes in the villages. It’s cheap and better than the campsite, as it allows you to live with them and gain a authentic insight and experience.''TRANSPORT. HOW TO GET THERE''Air transport is active throughout the year, especially flights from New Delhi.''If you plan to come by bus, please note that the road from Manali is closed from October to April due to heavy snowfall.''The''Delhi – Leh bus, takes about 35 hours''to travel just over 1,000 km and the price is about''1,300 rupees''.''FOOD AND DRINK''The normal food of Ladakh has more in common with Tibetan food than with Indian.''Main courses are''Thukpa''; a noodle soup,''Momos''; empanadas with meat or vegetables more typical of Tibet, or''Tsampa''; a flour dough that I personally find quite tasteless. With the exception of Tsampa, the rest is pretty good.''The most characteristic drinks of the mountains are Yak milk tea, which I find quite terrible and Chang; a fermented cereal and not too dreadful.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit India. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''WHEN TO GO:''In general, the''best time to visit the area is from June to September'', where the weather is not so cold, the roads are clear and the other provinces of India are virtually flooded by the monsoon.''TIPS. TOP PLACES TO VISIT IN LADAKH''EQUIP YOURSELF WELL FOR THE MOUNTAIN''If you do the''Markha valley hike''without a guide, make sure you have a map and always go with some friends.''ALTITUDE SICKNESS''It’s a very high region, so relax and take a few days to acclimatize before moving up. If you feel a headache, lack of appetite, red eyes or other symptoms, get down a few hundred meters. For more detailed info about''High altitude sickness''.''THE BIKE TOUR DESCEND FROM THE KHARDUNG LA''Keep in mind that there are some cliffs with hundreds of meters fall on the side, but well, going fast is also part of the adrenaline, so just enjoy!''SAFETY''Don’t worry, despite being a region with bad press due to political tensions, crime and theft are virtually non-existent.''Next Read:''Hiking the Annapurna Base Camp in Nepal''Do you have any question about\xa0Top places to visit in Ladakh? Leave a comment!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Markha Valley Trek on a budget. Learn how to do it...''If you liked this, please share it:''If you are thinking about going to the Himalayas and don’t know where to start, I recommend you get to''the province of Ladakh''and enjoy one of the most breathtaking landscapes of this world. I could compare it with that time I hiked to the''Annapurna Base Camp in Nepal''!''It is possible to do the''Markha Valley trek independently'', without guides or sophisticated equipment. All towns through which you pass have houses that welcome travelers (homestay), where you can eat, sleep and recharge to continue on your route.''This is the route I took; the technical difficulty is medium and you don’t need to be an expert mountaineer. Obviously you need to be well acclimatized to the altitude and have some level of fitness.''Itinerary of seven days. Markha Valley trek on a budget:''Day 1: Spitok – Rumbak''Day 2: Rumbak – Shingo''Day 3: Shingo – Skyu''Day 4: Skyu – Markha''Day 5: Markha – Hankar''Day 6: Hankar – Nimaling''Day 7: Nimaling – Kongmaru La-Shjang''Map''The logistics of the trek are simple. You will find dozens of places to sleep and drinking water is not a problem (usually boiled and with a burned wood taste).''You’ll need a map of the region''that you can find in different libraries in Leh and if possible, don’t go independently to the mountain. Try to put together a group with fellow travelers you met before departing.''If you are alone and don’t dare to do it on your own, you can also get a guide to accompany you for a much better price than hiring a whole tour with an agency.''Day 1: Spitok – Rumbak''There are many buses leaving''from Leh to Spitok''. From there you can walk to Rumbak or take a taxi from Spitok to Jingchan and avoid the first part where you walk along a rather boring road.''After Jingchan begins the most beautiful path''leading to Rumbak'', where you can find several shelters. It’s a simple path, keeping the river on one side and crossing the Jingchan pass.''Day 2: Rumbak – Shingo''It’s one of the most spectacular parts of the hike.''We walked through the Ganda pass''at approximately 4900 meters. From here, the endless landscape of snowy peaks and huge cliffs of the nearby mountains can be seen.''The Stok Kangri'', at 6130 meters, watched us carefully as we trekked.''We met some villagers and you can see their clothes finished with Yak hair, and cheeks reddened by the relentless sun. Here we began to see more grazing animals such as horses and some sheep.''Day 3: Shingo -Skyu''This is''a day of descent''. From the 4120 meters of Shingo to the 3430 meters of Skyu. Take it easy, because it’s still the beginning of the trek and your knees have to go all the way.''Upon reaching Skyu'', you are at the entrance of the beautiful valley of Markha.''Day 4: Skyu – Markha''This is one of the flatter walks around the trek, but the heat and the distance may make it a bit of a heavy day. On the other hand,''the village of Markha is lively with nice people''. It’s a good place to talk with local people (which probably will offer you Chang and other drinks), play with the kids, visit the nearby buildings, etc.''Day 5: Markha-Hankar''From Markha village,''you can begin the ascent to Hankar''. Here again, we are going to sleep at more than 4,000 meters, but if you’ve hiked up slowly, your body should be acclimated.''The path consists mainly of following the river before getting to the next village, so there are no major complications. Once you get to the village of Hankar, you will see that it is one of the most beautiful in the region and another good place to meet local people.''Day 6: Hankar -Nimaling''This is when''we start climbing seriously''. On this day, we will climb up to 4900 meters and sleep on the primary Nimaling camp, where some tents and plastics enable a fundamental place to overnight. If you didn’t bring enough warm clothes (as was my case), this is where you’ll regret it. The night is really cold, so bring a good sleeping bag.''The scenery here is different, it reminds me of the plains of Mongolia, where horses graze between large expanses of green and yellow (ok, I haven’t been to Mongolia, but i saw some pictures, hehe.)''Day 7: Nimaling-Kongmaru La-Shjang''This is the hardest day of the whole trek'', crossing the''Kongmaru La pass at 5260 meters''. However, it is also, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful days. The views from the Kongmaru La into the next valley are spectacular. The mountains are red, but other colors of orange and even green are mixed in the stones. From there, it’s a day of pure descent to reach Shjang.''The bus going''back to Leh from Shanjg''leaves early in the morning, so you can spend the night and return the next day. You can also try to get a lift to''Hemis''where there are more bus options.''The highest point of the Hike''Budget for the Markha Valley trek''ACCOMMODATION:''All the villages mentioned in this itinerary have guest houses, with basic but comfortable rooms and most of the families are very friendly.''Homestay:''The price per person is''about 800 rupees'', including food and water.''TRANSPORTATION:''There are several''buses from Leh to Spitok''. However, part of the trek up to Jingchan is pretty boring, so it’s a good idea to take a taxi to Jingchan and start the trek from there.''To return from Shjang there is no bus until the next morning, but you can get a ride to Hemis where there are more options.''FOOD AND DRINK:''No need to bring food'', except for some biscuits, energy bars or whatever. In every house, they will serve you dinner and breakfast plus a small snack for the day. The food is basic but good, usually soup, rice, boiled potatoes and similar things.''You can try the''yak milk tea''. It’s awful in my opinion, but you are in the Himalayas, so go ahead.''The Chang'', which is like the local beer, is not going to lack in the houses.''TRAVEL INSURANCE''I highly recommend that you get a good insurance policy before you visit the Markha Valley. Trusted by thousand of adventurers,''World Nomads''is one of the best and more reliable options (without breaking your bank).''WHEN TO GO''The best time to Hike the Markha Valley is from June to September''when the paths are clear of snow and the cold isn’t that intense. If you wanna go in another season, you should get a good guide and go very well equipped.''TIPS FOR HIKING THE MARKHA VALLEY''FIND HIKING BUDDIES''Although it’s a route that can be done without guides or agencies, I don’t recommend you going alone to the mountain. You never know what could happen, a fall, a broken leg, got too drunk in some of the villages because you had too much Chang?''GET A MAP IN LEH''Ask for it in bookstores, it shouldn’t cost much. Study it a bit before heading out to the mountains and ask someone who knows the way to explain the itinerary to you.''DRINK LOTS OF WATER''Despite the height, the heat can be strong sometimes.''BEWARE OF ALTITUDE SICKNESS''It’s not an excessively high trek, but if you’re sick, you feel a headache or nausea, climb down, have a rest and you’ll feel better. Detailed info about''High Altitude sickness''.''WEAR WARM CLOTHES''In general, the houses are well insulated, but the night at the Nimaling Camp, ufffff … that’s cold!! Why did I ignore my mom when she told me to bring more clothes?''ENJOY''This is so far one of the hikes I’ve enjoyed most in my life. The landscapes, the people, the customs, the monasteries, the colours of the rocks and the never-ending mountains, will make you feel close to heaven.''Check out''the''Ultimate Hiking gear list''and don’t forget anything important on your Himalayan\xa0expedition!''Do you have any question about\xa0Markha valley trek on a budget? Please Contact me!''Some of the links in this post\xa0are affiliate links. This means that if you book or buy a service, I’ll earn a small commission at no extra cost to you. I only link to stuff I love and I’ve actually used. Your support helps me improve the site.\xa0Thanks''Travelsauro''Hi, I’m Miguel; Adventure traveler, scuba diver and hiking lover. I have been traveling the world for the last 5 years and I hope my experiences, photos and hiking routes inspire you to travel the world too.''Related Posts''Hiking the Baliem Valley, Papua''Top places to visit in Ladakh, India''Hiking Boiling Lake in Dominica''Hiking the Mentawai islands on a budget''If you liked this, please share it:'