'Canada has its fair share of awesome cities between Montreal and Vancouver, but sometimes it feels like Toronto is forgotten about. Toronto has no shortage of things to do in and around the city with a great vibe all year round.''We visited Toronto for our first time this winter and loved the city! Want to know why? Well, we partnered with''Expedia.ca''to bring you some pretty awesome things to do in Toronto.''Things to do in Toronto''Venture up the CN Tower''A unique thing to do in Toronto is to head up the CN Tower. It’s the most iconic symbol of Toronto and the tallest tower in the Western Hemisphere. The''CN Tower''reaches over 553 meters into the sky and provides jaw-dropping views of the city and harbor. The tower has multiple observations decks, a glass floor, The Skypod, and a restaurant.''Try the Toronto EdgeWalk''If you’ve gotten to the top of the CN Tower and still wondering what to do in Toronto try the''Edgewalk''! EdgeWalk is probably the most thrilling thing to do in Toronto and perfect for adrenaline junkies. As a guest, get ready to strap into a harness and walk out on a 5 ft wide ledge for an unhindered walk around Canada’s highest tower. I’m going to let the video below show you what’s in store.''Royal Ontario Museum''The''Royal Ontario Museum''covers everything! It’s the best place to learn about world culture, natural history,\xa0and art in Toronto. As one of the largest museums in North America, it attracts more than one million visitors to see its six million items. It’s a city landmark in the neighborhood of Yorkville. We were overwhelmed by everything on display and recommend\xa0at least couple hours to explore.''Catch a hockey game''Looking for a really fun thing to do in Toronto? It’s well known that the national religion of Canada is hockey. Consider it a right of passage, but catching a hockey match is a must do while in Toronto. The''Toronto Maples Leafs''have not won the Stanley Cup since 1967 but still manage to draw a massive crowd. Their home arena, the Air Canada Centre, is located right in the heart of the city.''Ice Skate''After catching a hockey game you can always give it a try yourself. In the winter Toronto has over 50 ice skating rinks around the city. The most popular one is at''Nathan Philips Square''where the central fountain becomes an ice rink. Grab your hockey stick, lace up your skates, and get ready for a fun time!''Graffiti Alley''The''graffiti alley''has a few names such as Rush Lane or Rick Mercer’s Alley. You can find the alley between Spadina and Portland on the south end of China Town. The street is over a kilometer long and showcases a wide range of street art. It’s an explosion of creativity and color spread across the street covering just about everything. We love checking out areas like this as they play an important role in urban culture.''Get your Canadian card''Okay, there is no such thing as a Canadian Card. However, you can get in touch with Canada’s plaid-clad lumberjack roots at''Toronto’s Bad Axe Throwing''and BATLgrounds. You probably guessed it by now, but the two venues host a Canadian style of darts that involves hurling axes at a target. They’re both BYOB so you can throw on a Canadian Tuxedo and a two-four of Labatt Blue before tossing your ax. I promise I’m done with the stereotypes!''Catch a concert''Toronto hosts a wide range of musical acts and has numerous venues. You can hear everything from big-name artists at the Air Canada Center, an opera at the Canadian Opera Company, or your favorite band at the historic Massey Hall. Massey Hall is one of the most famous venues in Canada and has hosted an amazing line-up. Some of the people who have graced its stage include Winston Churchill, Bob Dylan, Neil Young, Luciano Pavarotti, the Dalai Lama, and a whole lot more.''Shop at the St. Lawrence Market''One of the best places to go in Toronto is the St. Lawrence Market. This famous food market has been named the world’s best by National Geographic. It’s been open since 1803 and started as a temporary weekly market. The current structure dates back to 1845. The South Market houses over 120 vendors who sell fresh produce, meats, baked goods, and cheese. While the North Market is only open for a weekend antique market and private events. Make sure to check their website for''up to date event information.''Art Gallery of Ontario''This art gallery is over a century old and includes more than 90,000 works from the first century onwards. This huge museum is located on Dundas street, and if you’re walking by you definitely can’t miss the 45,000 square meter building. As one of the largest museums in North America, it’s safe to say that a day here would easily be filled with contemporary art, interactive exhibits, and photographs.''The AGO is also home to Peter Paul Ruben’s''The Massacre of The Innocents''painting. The AGO prides itself on being kid and family friendly with tours, art-making activities, and Family Sundays and Summer camps for kids. For an up to date schedule of special art exhibitions check''here''.''Toronto Botanical Garden''We’ve mentioned our love for botanical gardens before and it hasn’t changed.''Since leaving New York''and saying goodbye to our beloved''Bronx Botanical Gardens''we are frequently making the effort to visit new ones around the world. The Toronto Botanical Gardens are free to visit and give visitors the joy indoor and outdoor experiences, garden tours, and even nature camps.''If you are visiting Toronto in the summer a visit here is a must and when things really liven up. There are frequent outdoor music events, garden dining, and an organic farmers market on Thursdays.\xa0The gardens are open every day besides major holidays.''Enjoy the Toronto Islands''I had no idea before I visited Toronto that the major city had its own little set of islands in Lake Ontario.''The Toronto Islands''are a group of 15 connected small islands, some even refer to it as just one island because of their easy connection of paths between one another. It’s a 13-minute ferry ride from Jack Layton Ferry Terminal. Once you land on the islands a whole day of fun awaits for every age. It’s possible to canoe, kayak, ride your bike, or\xa0hike around the islands. There are a few swimming beaches here including a Hanlan’s Point Beach which is clothing optional.''As a Michigander,''I would recommend dipping into the Great Lakes at least once in your life. Kiddies and families can enjoy the Centerville amusement park (geared for younger children, but still a treat!).''This is the perfect place to ride a bike or bring your dog for a walk in the summer. Make sure to keep in mind there are still 600 full-time residents living on the island so be respectful''Learn about wildlife at the Toronto Zoo''Although there are no more pandas at the''Toronto Zoo''there are still over 5000 other amazing animals to go around. Some of these notable animals are the one-horned rhino calf, Sumatran Tiger, and a two-toed sloth named Sally.''After a year on safari in Africa,''we admittingly have a tough time entering a zoo. \xa0However, we know that not everyone can head into the wild and enjoy the many beautiful animals that populate our earth and most zoos do great things for animal conservation and funding.''Rest assured that the Toronto Zoo is one of the zoos that does amazing work and makes a huge effort to conserve endangered species. They have rescued polar bears from the wild, reintroduced over 120 animals back to the wild, and monitored and saved wild bats around Ontario through their Native Bat Conservation program. The Toronto Zoo is actually the largest zoo in Canada and well worth a full day. There are seven regions to visit: Africa, Tundra, Indo-Malaya, Americas, Trek, Australasia, Eurasia, and Canadian. \xa0It will be hard to see everything so get there early!''Kensington Market''This hip Toronto neighborhood is our favorite spot in the city. It’s full of cafes, boutique shops, record shops, cool bars, and restaurants. It’s long been the neighborhood of immigrants, before turning into a hub for artists, and now a hipsters playground. The bohemian neighborhood is well worth an afternoon.''Walk around the Disterilly Historic District''A series of large Victorian industrial buildings''is the former home to the largest distillery in the world. Now the hip area is now filled with boutique shops, upscale restaurants, a brewery, sake distillery, and a chocolate factory. It’s all pedestrian friendly and no cars are allowed in the district. It plays a crucial role in the soul of Toronto and hosts a number of events throughout the year. Asides from the waterfront it’s probably the most photographic area of Toronto and it’s perfect for a night on the town''Get sprayed at Niagara Falls''Okay, this technically isn’t in Toronto, but it’s definitely a thing to do when visiting Toronto. The world-famous waterfall straddles the border between Canada and the US. It’s only a 90-minute drive from Toronto and is definitely worth the trip. Around 750,000 gallons of water a second roll over the cliff. If you want to feel the full force of Niagara Falls check them out with Journey Behind the Falls. The''Journey Behind the Falls''takes you through a tunnel and directly behind the falls. They’re probably some of the most incredible waterfalls in the world and draw quite a crowd for a reason.''Get some healthy eats''One our favorite things to do in Toronto is to get some healthy food. There are a number of great restaurants that specialize in health food that is tough to find outside of Canadian cities. We tried out Calli Love and Iq Food and highly recommend them both! Calli Love has some great smoothies and poke bowls. Iq Food serves up salads, veggie bowls, coffee, and healthy baked treats.''Quantum Coffee''Have we mentioned that we love coffee? If you’re looking for some of the best coffee we had in Toronto head to Quantum Coffee.''Go on a ski holiday''Last time we visited Toronto we wanted to go snowboarding on the Eastern side of Canada. This led us to Billy Bishop Airport and onwards to Mont Tremblant.''Mont Tremblant is one of the best ski resorts in Canada''and located just a 90-minute drive from Montreal. It is also only a very short and direct flight away from Toronto with Porter Airlines and is where many locals choose to go in the winter. Mont Tremblant isn’t just a ski hill, but instead a full winter resort experience where families can go dog-sledding, snowmobiling, and even shopping under the\xa0Laurentian mountains.''North Broadway''Toronto’s booming theatre scene is referred to as North Broadway. The self-described label hosts many touring companies and has a number of wonderful theatres. The two most popular theatres are Elgin & Winter Garden Theatre, North America’s only two-floor theatre complex, and Young Centre for the Performing Arts.\xa0The Young Centre for the Performing Arts has three stages in 19th-century tank houses located in the Distillery District.''Eat Poutine''Poutine is Canada’s national comfort food. It’s a base of french fries that are topped with cheese curds and brown gravy. There are all sorts of variations with creative toppings, but those three ingredients make up its core components. The best poutine is said to be found at Nom Nom Nom. It’s a shipping container food stall located in the Market 707. If you’re a vegetarian or vegan head to Poutini’s House of Poutine where they make a vegan version.''Read Next:''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''Five Ski Resorts in the Canadian Rockies You Haven’t Heard About''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''April 11, 2018''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''April 6, 2018''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''was last modified:''May 3rd, 2018''by''Natasha''As frequent travelers, we have learned a plethora of packing hacks over the years.\xa0Don’t worry if packing has you stressed because it is a skill that comes with time. However, we’re here to share some of our favorite packing tips with you and make your next trip a little less stressful.''Packing Hacks and Tips''Wear your heaviest clothing''If you’re flying carry on don’t waste precious space by jamming your heaviest items in your luggage. If you’re traveling with boots and a jacket make sure to wear the boots and carry the jacket. It seems simple, but we always make sure to have the heaviest and largest clothing items actually on us when we fly.''Invest in packing cubes''We love''packing cubes''! There an amazing way to organize your luggage and you can utilize all sorts of strategies. You can organize by clothing type, outfits, or color. It makes finding things a breeze and saves you from folding and unfolding clothes all the time. A bonus is when unloading the bag you don’t have to worry about your clothes touching the dirty floor. Don’t substitute plastic bags for packing cubes as they trap moisture.''Check out these packing cubes!''Keep items in Shoes''A great packing hack is to utilize your luggage space with a pair of shoes. You can stuff your shoes with your socks or something glass like a bottle of perfume or cologne. Not only does this save space, but it can protect a fragile item in transit.''Learn to love a sarong''This is Tasha’s go to packing item as they’re wonderful for all kinds travel. You can use a''sarong''as a blanket, cover up, and towel. If you’re traveling around Southeast Asia they are particularly useful as you’re often required to cover your shoulders and legs to enter a temple. The same can be said for entering the churches of''Europe.''Get a dirty shoe bag''We always travel with at least''two pairs of shoes''since we workout on the road. I’m a minimalist so I will wear a classic boot and then pack my lightweight running shoes in my luggage. To protect my clothes and luggage I like to use a cloth bag to store my dirty shoes. If you’re looking for a quick packing hack to find a suitable bag, steal one of the disposable laundry bags from your hotel room.''Don’t pack soap''No need to pack the soap as hotels always have this item. If you are staying at an''Airbnb'', there is always the chance to go buy it at a nearby grocery store. If you require specialty products don’t forget those from home though.''Toiletry bags are gold''For the liquids and toiletries that we do pack in our bag we always store them in a toiletry bag. It can save your clothes from a razor, makeup, toothpaste, or liquid. I use a regular toiletry bag while Tasha prefers a hanging one. Hanging ones are great to stay organized and keep your stuff off the counter. If you need a new bag check out our\xa0list of the''best toiletry bags''.''Choose the right luggage''Just a few of our bags, we have a lot!''Unless you like paying for pricey overweight luggage fees it’s best to start your trip with a lightweight suitcase. We have a post about our favorite''carry on backpacks''and the''best carry on luggage''if you need a new piece of luggage and some ideas. We like bags that are stylish, lightweight, have four strong wheels, and provide simple organization pieces.''Less is always more''People have a tendency to overpack, actually almost everyone overpacks. If you’re smart and pack light it almost always leads to a more enjoyable trip. We like to fully pack our bag and then go through it a day or two in advance. The night before our trip we take out what we absolutely don’t need. You need to learn to be pretty ruthless when packing. We’ve ditched countless items in hotel rooms simply because we were overpacked while if we just would have left it at home we would still have our perfectly good items.''Plan before you go''If you’re having a hard time with the packing hack above try to plan your outfits in advance. If it’s a special trip you can even do a test run and have a mini fashion show with yourself before you leave. Pack several different outfits and then mix and match, remember that black goes with everything and to stay away from colors that clash. You don’t have to avoid color just pack so that you can intertwine outfits easily.''Use small bags''If you take a daily supplement, vitamins, or medicine on a regular basis pack it in a small bag to reduce bulk. Just make sure if it’s a prescription you have the label! If you’re looking for the perfect size''try out these little pill packets''.''Keep Liquids Together''Carry-on travelers need to make sure all liquids are stored in a clear plastic bag. This will save a lot of time and energy in the security line when flying. Or maybe you like the TSA searching around your bag for a little bottle of contact solution? We definitely do not! The other option is to apply for''TSA precheck''and make airport security a breeze. (We’ve only just applied for TSA precheck. We’ll let you know if it’s worth it or not).''Have a Dirty Laundry Bag''We like to travel with a small fabric or mesh bag for our dirty clothes. This keeps the rest of our clothes from getting dirty and smelly. It’s really important that you do not use a plastic bag or something that does not breathe as it will cause damp clothes to mildew. If you have a wet bathing suit and don’t have time to dry it before packing, try using a''waterproof bag like this one here.''Roll Your Clothes''We love to roll our clothes to save space. They also tend to wrinkle less.''Protect Breakables''A great packing hack is to consider what can break and how to protect it. I like to wrap my camera in a scarf and pack it in the center of my bag if I’m going to check my luggage. I do not trust the TSA with valuables. You need to be extra careful of products like perfume or colored lotion as they can damage your clothes if they explode.''Plastic Wrap Liquid Tops''Air pressure can change a lot in flight which can result in toiletries exploding in your luggage. If you want to avoid items like sun screen from exploding in your luggage there is a simple packing hack. Cut small pieces of plastic, remove caps, cover the top, and replace the cap.''Dryer Sheets are Gold''Take a few dryer sheets and layer them in between your clothes. This is one our favorite packing hacks to keep our clothes smelling nice. It’s much easier and effective than packing a whole bottle fabric freshener. Who doesn’t want to smell''Tide''fresh?''Wrinkle Release''We’ve tried the steam your clothes in the bathroom trick, but it never seems to work. Instead we like to travel with a''bottle of wrinkle release''and utilize any iron when we have the time.''Bottom Heavy''To keep your suitcase balanced try packing your heaviest items on the bottom of your wheeled luggage.''Keep In Flight Necessities\xa0in Reach''If I have an outer pocket I like to keep all of my flight essentials within easy reach. Things like headphones, lip balm,''water bottles'', an eye mask,''travel pillow'', or your favorite book should all be easily accessible. Think about what you’d like to have while stuck on a plane or bus and plan accordingly. Check out our list of''long haul flight essentials''to make travels more enjoyable.''Clam Shell Suitcase''We love clam shell suitcases as they provide easy access to our luggage. Keep it mind that clam shell suitcases occupy a larger space in the hotel room, which is a negative when in small places.''Leave Space or Pack Old Clothes''You’re going to want to bring souvenirs home so you have two ways to make room in your luggage. Either you leave enough space in your bag to add a few more items or you travel with a few older pieces of clothes you can leave behind.''Get Active''If you like to stay in shape consider picking up fitness items that travel well. I like to travel with a''jump rope''and a''workout band set''. With those two items I can do just about any workout with some space as hotel gyms can be limited and sad sometimes. Or if the trip is short enough I make sure my hotel has a decent gym so I can ditch the gear.''Belt in a Shirt''If you’re traveling on business or like to dress smart place your belt inside your collar to keep it clean and stiff. This is great for a quick fix, but if you find yourself making a habit of it try out some''collar stays''.''Make Your Suitcase Yours''No one wants to lose their suitcase, and it is a lot more likely if your suitcase looks like hundreds of others. Try to pick out a unique, colorful, and stylish bag. Or you use a simple sticker, ribbons, or luggage tag to differentiate your bag.''Read Next:''The Europe Packing List You’ll Need This Summer 2018''The Best Winter Packing List for Europe and Beyond''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World in 2018''Best Carry On Backpacks to Help You Pack Smart''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''was last modified:''May 2nd, 2018''by''Cameron''The most beautiful city in Europe is a pretty subjective term, but there is no shortage of contenders. We’ve spent years traveling around Europe exploring its historic cities and charming towns. The continent continues to draw us back to explore more and deeper each time.''Europe''has us hooked. We love Europe for the\xa0architecture, art, piazzas, cafes, castles, history, and ruins. European air. Cameron and I have had many remarkable moments on the small continent.''After visiting almost every country in Europe we decided to share a few of our favorite towns and cities. These are the cities that we have traveled to personally and consider the most beautiful.''The Most Beautiful Cities in Europe''Florence, Italy''Florence,''Firenze'', is the capital of Tuscany and a highlight of''any trip around Italy''. You have to add this city to your''Italy itinerary''if it’s not already. The city is famous for its world-class cuisine, museums, works of art, and surrounding countryside. The architecture in Florence pulls you in and begs for you to get lost in its historic heart.''History nuts will go nuts as Florence is known for being the birthplace of the Renaissance period and packed full of treasures. Say “hello” to David! When you walk the narrow cobbled stone streets it appears as if little has changed over the centuries with marble basilicas, dark chapels, gas lanterns, and enchanting frescos. You really have the opportunity to get lost in time.''Must-See:''The Duomo Santa Maria del Fiore is the most beautiful cathedral in Italy.''Reykjavik, Iceland''Reykjavik is a charming city and well worth exploring for a few days.''The capital of Iceland''will be your entry point to anywhere else in the country and 95% of trips will start and end here, so there’s no excuse not to explore. There are no skyscrapers or massive chains in Reykjavik. It has a small population just over 120,000 people and when you walk around you will enjoy the quaintness of the city center.''During the day it’s fun to stroll through the streets and immerse yourself in Icelandic life. I love admiring the architecture of Hallgrímskirkja church. This iconic church can be seen from almost anywhere in the city and is worth a step inside. At night the city comes alive with a bustling nightlife that goes until the early morning hours. Going out in Reykjavik is a trip in the summer as the sun barely sets.\xa0 Fun fact: Reykjavik is the''world’s northernmost''capital of a sovereign state.''Must-do:''Explore the island of “Fire and Ice” on a''road trip''in a''camper van''.''Oia, Santorini, Greece''Just about everyone has heard of the beautiful''Greek island of Santorini''. The famous town of Oia is filled with whitewashed buildings topped by vivid blue roofs all set on a cliff that overlooks the stunning Mediterranean sea. What’s not to love? The town is easily the most picturesque of all of Greece and has been seen in photos around the world.''Oia is set on crescent-shaped clifftop that provides everlasting views of the calm sea and volcanic center of Santorini. What is most notable are the stunning sunsets that occur almost every day since the island has few cloudy days. It’s beloved by both Greeks and tourists alike, so be prepared for a crowded experience in the summer months.''Must do:''Walk down the neverending stairs to Amundi Bay for a delicious meal and dip in the sea.''Rovinj, Croatia''It’s a mighty hard decision to pick the most beautiful city in Croatia, but Rovinj may just take the cake. It should be a top choice when you are''wondering where to go in Croatia.''The colorful seaside town is like the bigger cousin to the Cinque Terre in Italy and makes Dubrovnik\xa0look a plain Jane. Not to mention it attracts far fewer tourists than Dubrovnik, especially in the shoulder seasons.''Visitors should head to the old town of Rovinj, which is small and walkable. The Church of St. Euphemia is well worth visiting and free to the public. The real charm of Rovinj lies in its cobbled alleyways, ambiance, coastal air, and boutique stores.''Must do:''Have a coffee at''Brasserie Adriatic''for great views and posh vibes at an affordable price.''Budapest, Hungary''Budapest is on many lists as one of the beautiful cities in''Europe''. It’s been nicknamed the “Paris of the East” because of its beautiful setting and unique architecture. The capital of Hungary is safe, youthful, and unlike anywhere else in Europe.''The nightlife scene in this city is booming with its unique ruin bars. Ruin bars are housed in abandoned buildings that date back to WWII and are a must see even if you aren’t into bars. Budapest is also well known for their\xa0natural thermal baths, which you can find around the city.''Must do:''Hit up''Szimpla Kert''– a famous ruin bar in Budapest.''Innsbruck, Austria''There aren’t many cities in Europe quite like Innsbruck. It’s coined itself the title “Capital of Alps” and easy to understand why once you set foot in the city. Flanked by the impressive Nordkette mountain range that towers over the city nature never feels far away.''It’s the only city''where you can ski,''explore a grand palace, window shop, and savor a strudel all in one day. There are plenty of''things to do in Innsbruck''with the Austrian Alps and a city rich in history. In many ways, it’s everything we love about Austria all packed into a modern city and historical city. We love the fact that you can be in a beautiful medieval old town and then within minutes places you in the heart of the Alps with cowbells ringing and fresh Alpine air.''Must do:''Ski at one of the many resorts in the Olympia SkiWorld ski area.''Tallinn, Estonia''Tallinn is one of the most well preserved old towns in all of Europe. Cobblestone streets and medieval homes make up the historical district but, that doesn’t mean that Tallinn is stuck behind the times! Estonia has a bustling technology sector home to thousands of startups and e-businesses. It brings a young hip vibe to residential neighborhoods with breweries, coffee shops, art galleries, and restaurants.''There are many sights to see in Tallinn and to make the most out of a trip we recommend at least two days. However, we were able to have a fun time with only a day. You can head to the buzzing Christmas market with folk dancers if it is winter season, eat your way around the Medieval old town, check out the beautiful\xa0Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, walk the city walls, ice skate, and more! The city center very compact and easy to walk around.''Must See:''The lively Christmas markets around the holiday''Venice, Italy''Love or hate Venice there is no denying its popularity. It is the most beautiful historic city on the planet, but it is also besieged by tourists. The sinking city is a network of 118 islands connected by bridges. Buildings here are old and if you manage to get away from the crowds it feels as if you’ve stepped back five centuries.''It is surreal and after several visits, we love Venice.''In our opinion, Venice is best in the shoulder and offseasons. The canals of Venice are notorious for harboring a lot of waste and in the summer the smell can get pretty bad; however, in the cooler months there are fewer tourists, less waste, and the smell is at bay. If you were to ask us Venice is one of the most beautiful cities in Europe, except in the summer months.''Must do:''Go to Libreria Acqua Alta, a hidden bookshop in the Castello district''Vilnius, Lithuania''Vilnius is the capital of Lithuania''and most populous city in the country. It’s a quaint city with a small population of half a million that allows for it to feel welcoming. It’s the perfect place to get lost for a few days and a popular stop on the Baltic tour route. The city center is the largest preserved example of baroque architecture in Europe.\xa0It’s littered with Catholic and Orthodox churches and no matter where you are in the city you can see the ever present Gediminas’ Tower''We had a few days worth of fun venturing into the many small cafes, breweries, charming shops, restaurants, and art galleries. The city is well worth a few days and we can’t wait to return someday.''Must do:''Take a day trip to the Trakai Castle!''Bruges, Belgium''Bruges is a town in Northern Belgium and is a picture perfect European town to visit. I visited once on a day trip from Brussels, but I consistently think back to that beautiful town. It was a stark contrast to dirty Brussells.''The best way to get around is to rent a bicycle. On a bike, you can explore the charming historic houses and canals. If it’s a nice day you can easily take a boat tour through the canals or venture to the''Koeleweimolen''and''Sint-Janshuismolen''mills windmills. My favorite thing to do in Bruges is a\xa0tour at the Half Moon Brewery to sip some local brew!''Must do:''Learn the history of fries at the\xa0Frietmuseum. Yes, there is actually a fry museum here.''Istanbul, Turkey''Turkey’s most popular city is one of the most amazing in the world and definitely one of the most beautiful cities in Europe. Istanbul bridges Europe and Asia, and the city crams in both cultures for everyone to experience. You can actually take a ferry along the Bosphorus and literally take a photo between two continents – where else in the world can you do that? It has long served as the crossroads between the two continents and thus has an amazing amount of history, architecture, and culture.''Istanbul is a massive city and even with two trips back here, we have yet to even scratch the surface of what Istanbul has to offer. It’s the perfect place to stroll along the Bosphorus and enjoy the old buildings and beautiful mosques nearby.''Must do:''Hang out in\xa0Cihangir, the perfect place to have a coffee and shop for some antiques.''Amsterdam, Netherlands''The city of Amsterdam needs no introduction.\xa0It is known as the''Venice of the North''because of its hundreds of canals. Amsterdam is nothing short of impressive and a must see while in Europe. Whether you’re into history, architecture, partying, food, shopping, art, or cafes there is something here for everyone.''A summer day in Amsterdam is near impossible to top in any other city. Our favorite thing to do in Amsterdam is to simply sit canal side in a quiet neighborhood, like Jordaan and enjoy a cold Amstel. Or you could do even better with a boat cruise. If you’re looking for traditional sights check out the Anne Frank House, Rijksmuseum, and Van Gogh Museum.''Must do:''If you go in April don’t miss your chance to see the tulips bloom in Haarlem.''Edinburgh, Scotland''It’s tough to argue with the appeal of Edinburgh as it’s one of the most''stunning cities in all of Europe''. The Scottish capital is packed with a long and dark history. The city center is split in two between the jumble of medieval buildings in old town and the perfectly lined Georgian buildings of New Town. The city in many ways is a mess, but a beautiful one at that! It’s brimming with class, tourist sites, and character and I assure you there is no shortage of''things to do in Edinburgh.''The city contains many contrasts and offers everything from''world-class art festivals''to fine dining, rowdy pubs,\xa0designer shops, comedy clubs, luxury hotels, and hip coffee shops. It’s almost impossible for any visitor to have the same experience or opinion of Edinburgh. We tried our best to enjoy a bit of it all, but like all visitors, we’ll definitely have to return someday with more time.''Must do:''Head out to the beach at North Berwick – it’s lovely!''Lagos, Portugal''Portugal is a year-round destination where vacationers and locals can be found body-surfing, parasailing, deep sea fishing, water skiing, and surfing. We spent November and December based in Lagos in search of''the best beaches in the Algarve''and enjoyed every sun-kissed day to the fullest.''The coastline around Lagos\xa0has some of the tastiest waves, cleanest water, and most dramatic landscapes. To top it off Lagos boasts an average of 300 days of sunshine each year! Not only are the beaches around Lagos fabulous, but the town is small, walkable, and sculpted by traditional architecture.''We would spend many days walking around Lagos watching old Portuguese men play chess, enjoy their coffee, and soak in the sunshine.''Must do:''Rent a car and drive around the whole coast to see all the beautiful beaches!''Helsinki, Finland''There are few cities in Europe that feel as forward thinking as Helsinki. The Finns have pushed into the modern era and embraced design, food, and art. No place is this more evident than in Finland’s capital. It’s a marvelous city that delighted us with''plenty of things to do.''For such a modern city you never seem to be too far away from nature,\xa0though. The city features a marvelous amount of green space as it’s spread out across a series of islands in the Baltic Sea. When you add in the cities delicious restaurants and Finn’s clear affinity for having a good time you have a brilliant mix. The Finns know how to live life with, “kalsarikannit,” a word to describe sitting at home in your underwear drinking with no intention of going out – that made us laugh.''Helsinki is a wonderful city to explore full of things to do and delicious food to eat. We spent a week here around Christmas time and could not have had a better time exploring a city. Helsinki may not be your typical''European city break destination'', but it is well worth a special trip to Finland for.''Must do:''Go see Coco, she’s at the Helsinki Zoo and is the oldest sloth in the world!''Sarajevo, Bosnia & Herzegovina''Sarajevo was one of the first cities in Europe I visited. At the time I instantly fell in love. It’s not a place that many travelers get to on their Eurotrip, but it’s certainly worthwhile. Despite being the center of a war zone twenty years ago, today it is the vibrant cultural hub of Bosnia and one of the best capital cities in Europe.''Sarajevo has been called the “Jerusalem of Europe,” because of it’s strong religious identity. This is the only place I have ever been where I came across a mosque, synagogue, Catholic church, and Orthodox within five minutes walk of each other. There’s some fabulous old and modern history here, it’s got a roaring nightlife scene, and it even played hosts to the 1989 winter Olympics! If all those things don’t entice you to visit, maybe learning that it’s insanely affordable will.''Must do:''Go to Cafe Tito\xa0for a drink in an interesting setting.''Kotor, Montenegro''Kotor''is a well-preserved former Venetian city\xa0inhabited by less than 13,000 people. Once visitors pass through the city walls a labyrinth of marbled streets, old lamps, stones houses, and quiet piazzas await them. The old city is fortified and encompassed by imposing stone walls while the town itself sits at the foot of a gorgeous Adriatic bay with the\xa0Dalmatian mountains rising high up above turquoise waters.''Some refer to the Bay of Kotor as being the southernmost Fjord in Europe, and with the stunning beauty of the bay, it is easy to see why. It’s a magical destination that feels as if you’ve taken a step back in time. We’ve been twice and it still stands out as one of the prettiest places to visit in Europe.\xa0 Make sure to make your way down to the harboring''village of Perast while there'', it’s equally as stunning.''Must Do:''Don’t leave Kotor without climbing\xa01350 steps to the Castle of San Giovanni''Ljubljana, Slovenia''Ljubljana happens to be''Slovenia''’s largest city and capital, but you wouldn’t know it. It has been named the greenest European city\xa0and features the largest pedestrian city center that is just brimming with life. Citizens and tourist alike love to drink coffee and catch up by the gorgeous riverfront.''Our first day in Ljubljana we spoke to a local who described her city as “a little girl who likes to play dress-up in her mother’s clothes. She’s beautiful and has refined elements, but should never be taken too seriously.” The city center is brimming with cafes serving up the local specialty drink, a white coffee.''Must do:''Take the funicular train to the Ljubljana Castle''Zakopane, Poland''The mountain of''Zakopane''is nestled in the Tatra Mountains. The Polish mountain town serves as a great base to this stretch of the Carpathian Mountains. It is an outdoor wonderland that provides\xa0visitors access to snow-capped peaks, waterfalls, alpine forests, mountain lakes, wildlife, and the meadow filled valleys.''Zakopane is an extremely affordable mountain town that is filled with plenty of charm and culture to go around. For us Krakow was cool, but everyone goes to Krakow. Instead, we ventured from Krakow to Zakopane for a unique experience.\xa0While it may be very popular for the Polish it is relatively unheard for the rest of the world and makes for a great city to relax in while admiring nature.''Must do:''Take a day to hike into the Tatras!''Ohrid, Macedonia''Ohrid is referred to as Macedonia’s “crown jewel.” Ohrid is a small city\xa0that surrounds the northern edge\xa0of Lake Ohrid, which is\xa0possibly one of the most beautiful lakes we have ever seen.\xa0 You can easily spend a few days here exploring the churches and relaxing in serenity along the quiet lake. A few days was not enough for us and we''ended up spending\xa0a week in Ohrid''. This city was one of our favorite destinations\xa0on our whole''Balkan trip''and we would add it to any Balkan’s travel itinerary.''Must do:''Anything on the lake. You’ll be blown away by the beauty everywhere!''Luxembourg City, Luxembourg''A\xa0mistake indeed,''as Luxembourg is well worth a visit.''The city and country embody many quintessential European cities and countries. We were lucky enough to visit during the Christmas season and catch one of the first snowfalls of the season and even take part in Luxembourg’s wonderful Christmas markets.''Luxembourg City''is a mix of the old and new with highrises rising all over the city, and a pleasant old town located in the heart of the city. It’s a melting pot of nationalities and you’ll often hear English on the streets as many foreigners come to work for banks and tech companies based in the city. It brings a pleasant expatriate vibe to vibe to the city and adds to its character.''Must do:''Have brunch at the Chocolate House for a delicious and unique hot chocolate.''Read Next:''40 Road Trip Essentials You Need to Have in Your Car''The Europe Packing List You’ll Need This Summer 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''The Honest Cost to Backpack Through Europe''Five Amazing European City Breaks and Where to Stay''How to Start A Travel Blog That Makes Money''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''was last modified:''May 2nd, 2018''by''Natasha''Italy may be our favorite country in Europe and definitely one of our favorites in the world. The iconic countryside, fantastic wine, rich history, and strong culture keeps us coming back year after year. From the Alps in the North to Sicily in the Mediterranean and the vast country in between, there is something for every type of visitor.''If it’s your first time visiting Italy you may be overwhelmed with the information, planning, and routing to consider. So, I wanted to share with you my top Italy travel tips after visiting the country many times.''30 Italy Travel Tips''Train travel is popular''Train travel is one of the best ways to travel around Italy. The train networks are extensive and fairly affordable. Fast trains cost between €30 – €70, while regional slow trains can cost €6 – €30 depending on distance traveled. The two main train companies are''Trenitalia''and''Italo''. It’s important to note that even if you have a Eurail pass in Italy you still must pay a reservation fee – typically of\xa0€10.''Understand Coperto''You may not have to tip 20% for service in Italy, but more often than not you will see a “Coperto” charge on your bill when you dine out. Coperto is a fee or cover charge that you will see at most Italian restaurants. We’ve found\xa0copertos range anywhere from\xa0€1.50-4 per person. It’s consider payment for your waiter and the bread on the table. You don’t have to tip for service on top of this, but it’s an important Italy travel tips especially if you’re trying to eat on a budget.''Prepare yourself for cobbled streets and stairs''You may want to think twice about bringing a nice roller bag to Italy. Most Italian towns and cities are filled with old cobbled streets. They are amazingly beautiful and one of the many reasons to love Italy; however, your bag will not love cobble stones. You also could be looking at a lot of stairs be it around town or actually in your apartment rental or hotel. That’s not to say you absolutely shouldn’t bring a suitcase to Italy if you want though. I personally have traveled to Italy two times with a suitcase and all was well, I was just wishing for a''duffel bag''instead.''Read the fine print before you book a flight''If you’re traveling around Italy you may be flying with a low-cost carrier. Easy Jet and Ryan Air are two of the big ones that operate in the country. We’ve flown both and have had decent experiences, just make sure to read the fine print before booking. Low-cost carriers can nickel\xa0and dime you if you don’t follow their strict baggage regulations and rules. They also require a online check in the night before unless you want to face another fee.''The early bird gets the worm''Italy, especially in the summer, can become a crowded and touristy place. You’ll be rewarded with peace and tranquility if you are up and at it before the crowds. Before 8 am is one of the best times to explore and get a better glimpse into local life. It’s also the golden hour for photographers as sunset the streets are packed with locals and tourists.''Visa rules''Italy is a member of the''Schengen agreement.''Meaning most nationalities get 90 days in''Italy and most of Europe''.\xa0Make sure to check with your embassy to see if this is you or not.''Stay Connected''Tim and Vodafone sim cards are cheap and you can pick them up at the airport. We found Tim to be slightly cheaper, but have used Vodafone all over Europe and have always had a good experience. If you’re staying a week or more it may be a good idea to pick one up.''Try not to look like a tourist''This is going to be a hard one, but when you’re in the Italian cities and towns it’s best to try and blend. Take off the baseball cap, put away the big map, no outdoor clothes, fanny packs, bulky cameras, and take note of your surroundings.''Not only will this make you less vulnerable to scams, but you may get better prices at normal shops. It’s what I like to call being an “aware tourist.” Italy is famous for its pickpockets and they target the easiest looking mark. Granted, we have never seen or experienced any of that in Italy.''Tips for blending''Speaking of blending in with the locals, Italians are stylish people. In North America, I particularly notice that we think nothing of walking out and doing daily chores in sweatpants and a t-shirt (not hating, I love me some yoga pants). But in Italy, this is not normal. More than likely the Italians will be dressed better than you unless you’re in business attire. Here are a few of my blending in tips:''No light blue jeans or dark jeans only''Black is always your friend''Stylish, but''comfortable flats''Scarves in winter''You can find more of my Italy packing tips here''.''Practice your toast''I find that around the world when you toast with someone with drinks you should always look each other in the eye. This is especially true in Italy where they drink at every social meal including lunch. It’s proper to hold your chin high and make eye contact with everyone and drink before you eat. It is considered to be polite, friendly, and apparently can bring good luck. If you’re lucky enough to dine with an Italian, make sure to cheers them with eye contact. Saluti!''Enjoy the vino''Speaking of alcohol, in Italy, good wine can be had for a great price. Drinking wine is a way of life and is often had with every meal at home and out to eat with friends and family. Those\xa0€3-5 bottles of wine in the supermarket? Those aren’t bottom of the barrel wines – that’s just the price of wine in the region!''Don’t eat near touristy places''The closer you are to a major tourist sight; like the Colosseum, Vatican, tower of Pisa, the Duomo, the higher the prices will be at restaurants and typically the worse the food. I recommend walking a few streets back from the main attraction to find more affordable and perhaps more authentic food. We also love to do a bit of research online to find some good places we can pick from for the day.''All pizzas are not created equal''I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again''– the best pizza we’ve ever had was in Naples.''Gino Sorbillo''‘s is well known in Naples for revolutionizing pizza and thankfully his pizza shop has begun to expand with one near the Doumo in Milan. If you find yourself in either of these cities and love pizza then a trip to\xa0Gino Sorbillo’s is a must. Although, the Naples location is the true winner – we like the city better than Milan too!''Go to Venice''Venice gets either a lot of love or a lot of hate. It’s a beautiful and unique city that is unparalleled. No other city on earth can compare in terms of history, treasures, architecture, and atmosphere. However, it’s beauty has also brought in hoards of tourists over the years. They descend on the city like a swarm of locusts in the summer months. Then mix in a sinking city prone to flood and a sewage system that is centuries old. It’s easy to see why Venice can also be a nightmare for some people.''The key is to head there in the offseason when crowds are low and''acqua alta''hasn’t hit. Another strategy is to stay on the outer islands or even Murano.''We’ve traveled to Venice around Christmas''and in mid-February, both times were fabulous experiences and trips. We can’t recommend seeing the city for yourself enough.''Who doesn’t want to see this?''Get off the mainland''There is more to Italy than Rome and Venice. The Italian islands boast some spectacular scenery\xa0and world-renowned beaches. Sicily and Capri may be the most well known Italian islands, but there are many others to consider vistiting. Sardinia, Stromboli, and Ischia are just a few waiting to be explored.''Here’s a great Italian itinerary for beginners''.''Find the best gelato''Gelato is loved by all. And no matter where you are you will be able to find a gelato shop.\xa0 However, There is good gelato and crap gelato – even in Italy. Read your reviews online, and be sure to test out a few different shops. When you find the best, you will know. Our favorite gelato in Italy was in Florence at''Gelateria Della Passera.''Plan to spend some time eating''Eating in Italy is a serious affair and people take their time to enjoy meals with loved ones. If you’re eating with an Italians plan ahead as it’s not unusual for a dinner to take three hours. It’s a time to eat, relax, talk, and drink plenty of good wine.''Italians also eat late and often don’t start dinner until 8 or 9 in the evening, so don’t be surprised if you show up to a restaurant at 6 and there is no one there.''Riposo''Like siesta in Spain, Italians also take a break in the middle of the day.\xa0Riposo is Italy’s midday siesta. From 1-4 p.m. you can expect to find many shops and restaurants closed. Italians like to take time in the afternoon to go home, have lunch, and relax with family before heading back out to do business.''Prepare for Italian sized cars''We’ve rented a few cars in Italy and each time they are what I like to call “Italian size.” If you think you may need a large full-size car on your rental make sure to specify that in the booking.''There are two Italys''From north to south, Italy is a very different country.\xa0There are 20 different regions in Italy, and each specializes in different wines, foods, and traditions. It’s one of the many reasons we love Italy and keep coming back. Whenever we travel we notice how different not only the landscape is between the North and South, but the culture as well.\xa0They are total opposites in many ways.''Northern Italy shares borders with France, Switzerland, and Austria and therefore has cultural similarities with those countries. It is historically the heart of the Italian economy with much more wealth than the South. It’s where you can find Italian style, super cars, and art.''Southern Italy is close to Greece and has a very strong Mediterranean culture, vibe, and climate. It’s vibrant, loud, and is prized for its culinary gifts to the world. They have amazing art and history too! As Americans, we also find that Southern Italy feels much more home because that is where most Italian-Americans immigrated from.''There are many seasons''Quite frankly, Italy in the summertime is my least favorite. Prices are higher and tourists are everywhere. It leads to less friendly locals who are over the flood of tourists. If you can swing it I would recommend visiting Italy during the shoulder seasons, particularly the fall. Or head there in the winter for their amazing ski destinations!''Learn the price of a cappuccino''Cappuccinos and espressos are everywhere in Italy'', and it’s WONDERFUL. Our day in Italy wasn’t complete unless we had about three visits to coffee bar. Coffee is meant for everyone and is therefore very affordable. We usually paid €1.30 for a Cappuccino and €.90 for espresso. Anything more than €1.50 and you are getting the straight up tourist fare.''It’s also worth noting that Italians have their own coffee culture. Drinking your coffee standing up and quick is essential to blending in, and ordering a cappuccino in the afternoon is a no-no. The milk and foam is hard to digest according to the Italians (but I guess they don’t worry about all the cheese?). Don’t worry though, foreigners are typically forgiven for having a midday cappuccino. 🙂''Get into the mountains''Many people head to Italy for the beaches or ruins, but did you know you can ski and snowboarding here? We enjoyed a fabulous week in the''Trentino region of the Italian Alps''and the views and snow were incredible. Not only was the ski great, but the charming mountain towns in Northern Italy offer a wildly different culture than previous places we had been. Other nice ski areas in Italy are Bormio, Livigno, and Alta Badia.''Have a sweet tooth''Breakfast is also an interesting and sweet time for me. The Italian breakfast is a light one and you shouldn’t be surprised if a croissant or cake is all you get for the start of the day. It’s amazing the first time you have a cornetti and cappuccino, but by the fifth time you’re ready for something else.''And embrace carbs''I love Italy. Perhaps that’s why I’ve been six times and have plans to return. The one thing that I can’t adapt to is the food. Sure pizza, risotto, and ravioli are great for a few days, but a week or longer of it? No thank you. If you’re on a diet and eating out in Italy you’re going to have a tough time. There is a good reason Italians save dining out for special occasions and friends. The majority of time they cook at home.''This is a reason why we particularly like to''rent out Airbnb’s to cook our own food''. Italy produces some fantastic products and produce so you’ll be able to make some fantastic meals from the market.''Don’t be afraid to cook in!''I know you probably traveled to Italy to eat all the delicious Italian food in the restaurants. However, almost every time I find some of the best Italian products in the local markets. Hand made pasta, locally produced sun dried tomatoes, olives, fresh mozzarella, and beautiful fresh produce are all delicious. YUM!''There are also some great hideaways in almost every town where you can find a little old Italian woman selling delicious produce and Italian food products. In fact, most towns have a shop dedicated to hand rolled pasta. Look out for it and buy the tasty products, I promise you won’t be disappointed.''Having a drink at lunch is totally acceptable''Remember when I said the wine was a way of life in Italy? Well, that philosophy goes for not just dinner but lunch as well. We enjoyed countless lunches in Italy with a glass of vino in hand. There are so many great wines to start off lunch with we loved a little bubbly''proseco'',''trentodoc'', or''spumanti''.''Cannolis are not delicious everywhere''Cannolis originated on Sicily, and are hands down where I’ve found the most delicious ones. Anywhere else in Italy Cannolis can be very hit or miss. Remember when I said Italy is a different country with regional foods. Theses delicious treats are best in the South.''Love thy dog''Every time we go back to Italy we remark how much Italians seem to love their dogs. Pet owners are everywhere around the country and more and more businesses are becoming dog-friendly. If you’re looking to go on vacation without parting from your furry friend Italy may be calling you name.''Bring good shoes''Most of the cities in Italy are 100% walking cities, so prepare to work off that pasta!\xa0\xa0Stay away from heels sa many Italian towns have cobblestone streets and you don’t want to break an ankle trying to look good. That being said plenty of Italian women rock it!\xa0 A good pair of leather boots for men will fit in great, just make sure they’re polished and in good condition. As for women flats or stylish combat boots are great!''Read Next:''The Ultimate Italy Travel Guide''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''What to Wear in Italy All Year Round''The Best Hotels in Italy: Lake Como, Venice, Florence, Rome, & More''A Guide to Coffee in Italy''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''February 2, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Natasha''Want to learn how to start a travel blog?''Want to learn how to make money off a travel blog?''We have you covered! In this guide, we’re going to cover how to start your very own travel blog so you too can document your travels. I’ll also cover many strategies to get you set up and ready to go in the right direction.''In this guide, I’m not going to sell you on anything or push you into some terrible service provider because they pay me a high commission check (more on that later).''We’re about to reach our third year of travel blogging. Since we started in 2015 we now make a full-time income and can use the power of the blog to travel wherever we want to in the world. It’s been a long road up until this point, but with enough hard work and time, we believe others can succeed too.''Are You Ready to Start a Travel Blog?''This is not a simple how to set up a blog guide. In this post, I detail everything to set up your first travel blog. At points, it gets technical covering topics like web hosting, software, SEO, and building an audience.''I also need to warn you it took hours upon hours of work just to set up our travel blog. At first, it was a great resource to detail our musings, but then to make it a profitable venture has taken a countless amount of time working on this website. In fact, most successful blogger, ourselves included, will admit they work more on their blog then they did at their old “real” job.''That being said, our lives are and travels are flexible and we’re quite literally at a point where we can go and do whatever it is we want. 40+ day safari? Yup.''Snowboard season in Switzerland''? Yup. Two weeks in the Caribbean? Why not! Move to Japan? Sure! We love the freedom that working online has brought us and I can’t imagine going back to working at a traditional office from 9-6 every day.''The Reality of a Travel Blog''Blogging from the Masai Mara''You’re going to get a lot of disingenuous information out there about travel blogging. Some bloggers (not just travel) like to paint the perfect picture in order to sell you a product, like their latest course, e-book, or Lightroom preset. Many of them are full of shit, but not all! We had the idea that every day would be like the photo above blogging from some luxurious tent in the great wilderness, but in reality, the true work days are when you’re inside banging away at your keyboard.''We all have the dream of jet-setting around the world, blogging, and making lots of money. Just be warned it is nowhere near that easy. Travel blogging can be exhausting and I guarantee you that any successful blogger has put in a countless amount of hours behind the computer. To top it all off you have to travel to a foreign country while shooting photos and videos, researching the next destination, and managing an inbox full of emails.''The vast majority of bloggers make little to nothing on their blog and for every 10 that start out maybe one will generate an income. To top it all off, the travel blogging world is super crowded and oversaturated. Every single day dozens of people start a new travel blog. That being said, there is plenty of room left for more successful travel blogs and more information to share about our world.''You have the ability to write about your passion and share it with the world. It’s still pretty surreal that we’ve been featured in articles on Lonely Planet, Business Insider, New York Times, and Travel & Leisure. Our blog will see well over a million readers this year, that’s pretty freaking massive. Throughout our blogging career, we’ve made helped millions of people around the world travel and see the globe. Every message and email we get from someone detailing their upcoming travels makes us smile.''Here’s how to start a travel blog:''Determine Your Name''Buy Web Hosting and Domain''Install WordPress''Learn How to Work with WordPress''Select a WordPress Theme''Install WordPress Plugins''First Blogging Steps''What Should You Write About''Self-high-five!''Determine Your Name''This is a dreaded task for many and can take a lot of time and effort. When we started we spent several days just thinking about the name we wanted. We both created a shortlist and narrowed it down until we agreed on''The World Pursuit.''The best advice I can give for determining a name is to:''Make it Memorable''-Your travel blog domain name should be easy to remember, easy to write down, and easy to share with others. Think about what you want your blog to focus on as a topic.''Avoid These Pitfalls –''When you’re selecting the name of your travel blog to avoid these problems:''Don’t pigeonhole yourself:''Unless you plan on sticking to the same niche be careful. That destination are weary to work with the words “broke,” “dirtbag,” or “backpacker” in the name.''No hyphens or numbers:''If you can’t tell someone the name of your blog without explaining the spelling of the URL you’ve messed up.''No misspellings:''Same as above, plus it comes across unprofessional.''Overused words:''The world does not need another “nomadic,” “backpacker,” “adventurous,” or “wandering.” It worked for the first bloggers, but you’ll just be in their shadow with a similar name. Be original!''Long-Term –''You need to think about your name in the long run. You don’t want to name yourself something relevant to a certain time or one particular trip. What happens when Krissy from''Travels Before Your 30''turns 31?''Keep it Professional –''If your goal is to make an income from your blog you should think about how it will sound in a business meeting. Think about situations where you may meet with community leaders, tourism board representatives, marketing executives, and a lot more.''Word Cloud''–\xa0We’ve had a number of peers ask how we came up with our name. In fact, we’re really happy with, “''The World Pursuit''.” We knew that we wanted to avoid all of the traditional trappings of a travel blog. It was also mighty hard coming up with something original. Our solution was to make a word cloud. We wrote down a list of our favorite words related to what we envisioned as a brand. From there we mixed and matched until we landed no something original and personal.''Your Name''–\xa0In all honesty, your name may be a really safe bet. Your blog is your brand and you are your brand. I haven’t seen many bloggers sticking to their name, but it’s entirely your own and it’s most definitely memorable.''Check Social Channels''–\xa0This is super important in the modern blogging world, but the handle related to your name should be available on social media. You want to check Instagram, Facebook, Youtube, Pinterest, and Twitter before purchasing a domain name.''.Com''–\xa0This may not seem important, but you’ll have a tough time with the new domain extensions. “.Com” is still the leading domain extension so make sure that the domain name you want is available.''Check Domain Names Here!''Buy Web Hosting and Domain Name''There are many ways to set up a website and blog, but if you plan on monetizing your site you need a self-hosted WordPress blog. You may have seen platforms like Squarespace, Blogger, Wix, and WordPress.com; however, they come with restrictions and you do not own your space.''WordPress is open source software that is free to use and is utilized by over 30% of the internet. Hosting refers to having a dedicated space on a server. Here are the two key concepts you need to understand here:''Web Hosting'': This is the service where all of the information on your website is stored. When someone goes to your URL they are accessing the information stored on your web host. For example, our primary server is based in Chicago and when we work on our website we access the files, articles, and photos stored on a hard drive in Chicago connected to the internet.''A Domain Name'': This is what we people type in to access your site. For example, ours is TheWorldPursuit.com''Choose Your Web Host''Your web host is where your blog or website lives on the internet. All of your photos, videos, text, and files will be stored on their servers.''Most web hosts offer tiered levels of hosting. When you’re starting out, you will be fine with the lowest level of web hosting. On average this level of hosting costs''$3 – $10 a month''. Don’t worry you can upgrade your website at a later date when it becomes popular. Many hosting providers also include the registration of a new domain name for free if you’re just opening an account. I will detail three different options for web hosts later below.''Here is what you need to look for in a web host.''Things to look for in a web host:''Types of Hosting'':''Shared Hosting''– This is your best option when starting a new blog as it is the entry-level service. This means that you share a server with multiple websites.''Virtual Private Server''– This is the most robust form of hosting, but it is totally overkilled for a new travel blog.''Bandwidth''— Most host plans come with unlimited bandwidth, but it’s unlikely you’ll need it starting out anyways.''Free Domain Name''— A few web hosts give you a free domain with the opening of an account. I opt to purchase ours from a third party.''Storage Space''— This refers to the size of your site on the server. A few gigabytes should be more than enough.''WordPress Optimization''— Keep an eye out for this because it’s the best software to run your blog''Reliability''— Everyone claims to be over 99.9% uptime, but I would do some of your own research.''Quality Tech Support''— I’ve gotten pretty technical over the years, but I still turn to my host from time to time.''24/7 Tech Support''— Any time your site is down is a bad time.''Automatic Backups''— I store backups from our site on an external hard drive\xa0every week, but having an automatic backup could save me a lot of stress.''Web Host Options''Stablehost''Check out Stablehost''This is our hosting provider. We’ve had a tremendous experience with them and they’re a medium sized company so customer assistance has a more personal feel. I’ve compared our website speeds to many of our peers who have more expensive dedicated server plans and found their specialized Enterprise plan to keep up the pace. They are the most expensive of the starter options and they do not include domain names for free. I’ve talked to their support and they’ve told me their basic plan should be able to handle around 120,000 monthly visitors. If your blog grows above that number, like ours, their Enterprise plan is unique to the hosting industry. The Enterprise plan offers clustered hosting (delivers 99.9% uptime) and they limit each server to only 50 websites. It’s a great value.''If you use the coupon code “theworldpursuit” you’ll save 40%''Siteground''Check out Siteground''Siteground is the most commonly referred to hosting provider we find in travel blog forums. I know a lot of travel blogs that run on their web hosting service. It has great reviews and most people report good customer service. They’re responsive and have free transfer service if you’re coming from another host. However, when comparing their basic plan to Stablehost they offer much less until you reach their higher levels of service that cost $10-$15 a month. Beyond the entry-level shared hosting plans they have a large variety of options to upgrade your hosting service. Their plans are also specifically built for WordPress and after registration, they will have the software preinstalled for you. That means you can have your website up and running in less than 15 minutes.''Bluehost''Check out Bluehost''Bluehost is the most preferred web host on the internet, and for good reason. They have the cheapest service that includes a domain name and they pay their affiliates the highest commission. If I’m being honest with you here, the vast majority of bloggers you see recommending them probably would never use the service themselves. On average they offer up $100 per new customer a blogger sends them so you see all sorts of “how to start a travel blog” posts and ads touting this hosting service.''However, they are cheap and the inclusion of a domain name can save you $10-$15. Granted with high marketing costs, affiliates, and a low price point their service is very subpar. We’ve seen dozens of bloggers complain about their service due to crashing websites. There was a point long ago Bluehost was decent, but they along with hundreds of others have been bought by a company called EIG. I would advise looking at''this post here that covers EIG''and why you should avoid them.''My Two Cents''If you were to ask me I’d still pick Stablehost. It was the decision I made nearly three years ago after tons of research. I initially fell for one of those how to start a travel blog posts. It influenced me to set up a plan with Arivxe, an EIG company who also owns Bluehost, and I had a terrible experience. After canceling the plan I turned away from bloggers and went to forums of web developers, that’s when I landed on Stablehost. I’ve been happy ever since!\xa0As an added bonus I’ve been with them so long I can give you a coupon code – “theworldpursuit” will save you 40% at checkout.''Check out Stablehost''Install WordPress''WordPress is a website content management system. The software is totally free, and just about every blogger uses it to run their blog. Even massive websites like Techcrunch, The New Yorker, Apple, BBC America, and The New York Times utilize WordPress to run their website.''What’s great about its popularity is all of the support on the internet. Most hosts, including all the above, make installation of WordPress super easy with the click of a button upon signing up. Almost every blogger runs on WordPress so you can often reach out to others for help or thoughts. There are countless blogs and tutorials dedicated to building a website on WordPress so you can learn a lot.''And one of its greatest strengths is the ability to customize themes, plugins, and custom coding. That way you can make your blog personal. The installation should be pretty simple from the dashboard of your host after you’ve selected a plan. If you’re having a tough time just contact support and they’ll help you out. Most likely you’ll be fine!''As a last tip, when you install WordPress you are asked to create a username and password.''Make sure to use a login other than the default “admin.”''This is good security as you will have brute force login attempts on the non-existent user “admin,”''we receive hundreds a day.''Learn How to Operate WordPress''Now that you have WordPress installed head to –''www.(inset blog URL).com/wp-admin''This is your login page for your blog and where you enter your username and password.''Once you’ve logged in, your WordPress Dashboard will come up. Get used to it! This is the central area for your blog and you’ll spend a lot of time working here. From your Dashboard, you can control everything about your site. I suggest getting familiar with your dashboard.''Behind the scenes at The World Pursuit''When you first login,\xa0spend some time learning how to use your dashboard, how to change your site’s settings, how to write a post, how to install a plugin, and more. None of it is rocket science. If you ever get stuck just use a simple''Google''search, there are dozens of tutorials on the internet and''Youtube''.''Select a Theme''Once you have the nuts and bolts of your blog figured out it’s time for the fun part. Upon installation, WordPress comes with a couple of standard “themes.” A theme is essentially the design for your site. The standard themes work well when you’re just starting out, but if you want your blog to stand out and build a brand, you should purchase a premium theme.''The theme prices generally cost between $20-$80. With a premium theme, your site look and function will be greatly improved. I spent a lot of time researching the best themes on the market and decided to go with the''X-Theme''. What’s great about the theme is the ability to customize. I’ve been able to personalize every aspect of our site. Yes, the whole design of this site is done by me.''If you’d like to shop around check out the''ThemeForest'', they sell thousands of premium themes. If you need help setting up your theme most of the reputable themes come with support.''Shop For A Theme''Install WordPress Plugins''WordPress plugins are additional bits of software or third party apps for your website. These can be used to expand the functionality and performance of your blog. Many plugins are free and you can install them from the “plugin” section of your WordPress Dashboard.''Please keep in mind that plugins are developed by third-party developers. The quality of these plugins can vary a lot and some plugins create conflicts with other plugins. This can cause your site to crash or move at the pace of a slug. All of the plugins I’m going to recommend are popular and should not create any problems on your site.''Yoast SEO''— This is a super important plugin that is made to optimize your articles for Google Search. It also integrates a sitemap and connects your Google Analytics.''Wordfence Security''— Best security plugin that comes with a slew of features.''Disqus''— We use Disqus for its ability to filter out spam comments, SEO, and its relevant post suggestions.''W3 Total Cache''—\xa0This is a caching plugin. It saves a “static” copy of your page to your server and serves this to your users this will help speed up load times. It’s pretty easy to set up, just follow their instructions.''WP Smush''— You should resize your image before uploading, but WP Smush will further optimize them when you upload.''Interactive World Maps'': You’ll find this plugin on a lot of travel blogs, including our own. It’s a plugin that creates an interactive world map, but it does require payment.''WP Touch''– Make sure that your theme is mobile responsive by minimizing your screen or checking on a phone. If it’s not responsive, install WP Touch to make it mobile friendly. It is super important to have a mobile-friendly site.''First Blogging Steps''Create an about page:''The first piece of copy you should write is your about page. I would recommend doing this before you publish your first post. When you start with your about page it will force you to gather your thoughts on your blog theme, style, and niche. Most importantly it puts a name to a face. Our most clicked page on our menu is our “''about us''” page.''Set up Social Media:''Setting up your social media is an important first step to a successful travel blog nowadays. In fact, it’s where the majority of your readers will follow you and where the interests of advertisers lie these days. I would advise against leaning too heavily on social media as a number of bloggers are these days. When you’re posting on Facebook remember that Facebook is a business and you’re playing on their platform. A change of an algorithm or policy can change your business model overnight. Your blog is yours.''Start by signing up to all of the platforms below, and make sure to use the same username throughout.''Instagram''Facebook''Pinterest''Youtube''Twitter''Write Your First Post''Before getting too serious this would be a great time to try writing your first post. It can be about whatever you want. Perhaps about your last trip, an upcoming trip, or why you’re starting a travel blog. It’s important here that you learn how to write a blog post with images, header, and a proper format. It takes a little bit of learning, but with time you’ll feel very comfortable on the platform. Even if you’re not traveling yet you still have value to offer to your readers. Write a topic about your local hometown or region, visitors will never know it better than you! Our very first blog post was information on the''Schengen Agreement in Europe,''and it still gets read today!''What should you write about?''You have everything set up to begin writing content for your blog. When we started our blog it was difficult to find new topics for blog posts. As a general rule of thumb, I would suggest you try to publish a new article 1-2 times per week.''The most important thing to keep in mind though is quality over quantity. If you look at the most successful blogs on the internet they’re all a powerful resource for their readers and provide lots of useful information. Make sure to keep your personality and opinion in your blog post, but the reader doesn’t want to hear about every part of your day and whats going on your head – create actionable, personal, and helpful tips.''Provide tips, fun things to do, a cool story, your favorite resources or products, and photos. It will take some time to find your voice, but once you do writing becomes a lot easier and you’ll develop an audience.''Give Yourself a High Five!''You’ve done it! At least to a point, because you’re really only starting a long journey down the rabbit hole that is travel blogging. Now it’s time to build an audience!''Read Next:''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''About Us''How to Save Money for Travel 22 Actionable Tips''Living in NYC on a Budget: How We Saved Over $50k to Travel the World''How to Start A Travel Blog That Makes Money''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Cameron''Affordable''and''ski trip''are not typically two words that go together. We’ve spent the last few months touring a number of ski resorts in Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Canada, and the United States and have come to realize that skiing and snowboarding is no poor man’s sport. Until Idaho popped into my mind.''As we were deciding where to go after''snowboarding in Colorado'', Idaho seemed like the perfect Pacific Northwest combination. Besides the fact that the potatoes I honestly knew nothing about Idaho. It’s not your typical US travel destination like Las Vegas, Disneyworld, or the Grand Canyon. Nevertheless, a few Google searches yielded beautiful photos and it appeared to be a bit of an untapped ski destination.''Let’s Go!''I told Cameron. We are always up for highlighting lesser visited places and it seemed like the conditions were perfect in Northern Idaho. A great place to do some spring snowboarding we thought.''We ended up spending a week in the beautiful state had some of our best snowboarding of the season – all for a fraction of what North Americans spend elsewhere! Here are our favorite places and ski resorts in Idaho that should be on your radar next winter.''Three Lesser Known Ski Resorts in Idaho.''Silver Mountain near Kellogg''Our first stop on our North Idaho road trip was the former mining town of Kellogg. We didn’t have any expectations for Kellogg or Silver Mountain. Honestly, we had never heard of either, but after two epic days here we fell in love.''Kellogg itself is a quiet town nestled in the Bitterroot mountains of the Idaho Panhandle. From the highway you wouldn’t think much of the community. It is a small place with a rich history of mining and logging, home to the''Sunshine Mine accident in the early 70’s''. Now, it is an attractive place for outdoor lovers as the region is filled with opportunities to hike, mountain bike, fish, kayak, hunt, ski, and off-road at a fraction of the cost of the mainstream outdoor meccas in the U.S.''Our main reason for visiting the Kellogg area was to snowboard at''Silver Mountain Resort''. Silver Mountain was suggested to us by an Idaho native and with a website that states they are “home to some of the best skiing and snowboarding in the Northwest,” we figured why not?''Snowboarding at Silver Mountain''The forecast was calling for clouds and snowfall so we wanted to be first on the mountain to get some fresh tracks. At many ski resorts it would have been a busy day, but when we boarded the''world’s longest gondola''to reach the mountain we realized that waking up early thing wasn’t really necessary.''It was late March and the snowfall was heavy. A cold day and far from the perfect weather for anything other than ski. We saw maybe 25 people or so adjusting their gear at the summit. When I commented on us how quiet it was, our guide for the day told us we may see 50-100 people on the whole mountain that day.''“That’s just the way Silver Mountain is –''quiet'',” he said.''After coming from busy ski resorts like Big Sky,''Lake Louise Ski Resort,''and Breckenridge this is exactly what we wanted to hear. What snowboarder doesn’t love a powder day all to themselves?''Who doesn’t love a nice pitch, powder, and trees?''I definitely do!''Silver Mountain Resort is spread across two mountains with 73 trails, 1,600 acres of terrain, and 2,200 feet of vertical. The resort gets more than 300 inches of snowfall annually, that makes it the perfect place for powder hounds. Silver Mountain has five chairlifts and I highly doubt there is ever a lift line – even on weekends.''The terrain is suitable for everyone with\xa020% beginner, 40% intermediate, 30% advanced, and 10% expert.\xa0There’s even a sizable terrain park for all the park rats in the area. With the amazing conditions, we didn’t ride many beginners runs, but instead found ourselves in the North Face Glades and hiking up Wardner Peak for fresh lines.''Silver Mountain’s main lodge area leaves a lot to be desired, but I prefer it that way. With more development and fancier restaurants come higher prices and crowds. Silver Mountain is a locals mountains where we could have a $4 beer while chatting with the local ski veteran. There is a bar/laid back restaurant upstairs and a cafeteria-style restaurant downstairs. You won’t find any Colorado prices here.''Speaking of price, I forgot to mention the best part, the''cost of a daily lift ticket is only $56''!''With the great snow conditions and lack of crowds, we had some of our best snowboarding conditions at Silver Mountain.''We had two full days of big mountain snowboarding at Silver but could have easily used a whole week to explore the mountain properly.''Stay and Eat:''There isn’t a large variety of accommodation options in Kellogg. We stayed at''Silver Mountain Resort,''which is connected to the gondola servicing Silver Mountain. Our room had a comfortable bed and kitchen to cook in. All guests at Silver Mountain Resort receive free access to their indoor waterpark as well! This is a big hit for families looking to escape the winter.''You have to try''Radio Brewing''in Kellogg for a good craft beer, atmosphere, and dinner. One of our favorite breweries we visited in the States.''Lookout Pass near Wallace''Just 15 minutes down the road from Kellogg is the historic city of Wallace. In case you didn’t think it was possible to get smaller than Kellogg, it is. There are around 800 residents of Wallace and the small town western feel is very much present here. The town is called the “Silver Capital of the World” producing more silver than anywhere else in the world. For over 100 years Wallace has been the core of silver mining in the United States, and it was interesting to learn that it still remains a mining town today.''Wallace is the only town left on the National Register of Historic Places and driving through you can see why. Over the years the people of Wallace have maintained the old “wild west” charm of this town. Just walking down Main Street and strolling into the shops, museums, and bars you yourself will definitely feel as if you have been transported back to the early 1900’s. Being a western town Wallace certainly has a colorful past as it was famed for a large bordello community in Wallace up until the late 1980’s. If you want more insight head to the''Oasis Bordello Museum''or''check out this book''.''Credit: Wallace Chamber''Credit: Wallace Chamber''Wallace isn’t just a time warp into Frontierland though. It actually makes for a great base to explore the outdoors. It’s location amongst the beautiful mountains, lush forests, and the Coeur d’Alene River making it another town in Idaho that is beloved by adventure and outdoor enthusiasts.\xa0 It’s also a good stop along the''Route of the Hiawatha''. A 15-mile scenic route between Montana and Idaho. If you want to see what an old mining town truly looks like without making a stop at Disneyworld I highly recommend checking out Wallace.''Ski/Snowboard at Lookout Pass''We only stayed in Wallace one night, enough to have a night out at the saloon and wake up early the next morning for a day at Lookout Pass Ski and Recreation Area.''Lookout Pass''is located right off the highway on the\xa0Idaho/Montana border (Exit 0). I’d wager a bet you’ve probably never heard of the ski area, but here is why it’s absolutely fantastic.''At first glance Lookout Pass may seem like a small ski hill. And that is true, there is no crazy vertical drop like at Jackson Hole or Whistler, but the ski area does receive insane levels of snowfall. How crazy? Well, 400″ is said to be the norm and because of their location in the Northern Rocky Mountains the snow at Lookout stays light and dry. We talked to locals who claimed they were getting powder dumps in November, and skiing waist deep snow throughout the season.''This is very much a locals mountain where you’ll find some of the same old timers riding here every day for decades on end. It’s a fabulous feeling compared to skiing at large resorts that only look at you as an ATM. Here there is a distinctly personal touch.''You won’t get bored though as the ski area is serviced by three chairlifts, and 35 runs across 540 acres more than enough a full day. The vertical at Lookout is\xa01,150ft making it family friendly. It’s a great place to come and let your kids run free without worrying they will die on a cliff. Another cool thing is their free ski school. Yes for 77 years they have been operating a totally FREE ski school for kids. In fact, hundreds from the region learned to ski at Lookout Pass.''A lift ticket to Lookout Pass will set you back all of $45 for the day.''In the world of ski and snowboard, this is an amazing deal. We were shocked to find that early bird season passes are only''$209''.''Check out lift tickets here.''Stay and Eat:''We spent the night at the Wallace Inn.''The Wallace Inn''has clean and comfortable rooms for an affordable price. Try the''Blackboard Cafe''for great homecooked Italian food and make sure to hit up''6th & Cedar Espresso Bar''for coffee in the morning and drinks on Wednesday evenings.''Schweitzer Mountain near Sandpoint''Our last stop in Northern Idado was Sandpoint. Another town neither of us had ever heard of before, but as soon as we crossed the bridge over the Pend Oreille River we knew it was a place we could see ourselves living. Sandpoint is located a little over an hour south of the Canadian border. It’s another town nestled in the beauty of North American nature and is quickly growing in population due to this.''Sandpoint is a much bigger town compared to where we had previously visited in Idaho. There are a number of chain stores, hotels, and restaurants which adds to the livability of Sandpoint, but the real charm lies in the vibrant downtown. The walkable area is home to breweries, winery, coffee shops, restaurants, and boutique shops. It had much more young and hip atmosphere than many of the other towns we had visited in the Pacific Northwest.''Winter in Sandpoint is actually low season, as the summer months are busy with outdoor festivals and a plethora of activities that pave the way for a good time. The gorgeous 43-mile-long''Lake Pend Oreille''shimmers blue and surrounds Sandpoint. The lake makes it ideal for people craving an active lifestyle or those who love boating. Sandpoint is surrounded by three mountain ranges –\xa0Selkirk,\xa0Cabinet, and\xa0Bitterroot\xa0drawing in crowds who crave running, biking, and adventure activities. We’ve even been told a few celebrities based their hideaway homes in Sandpoint.''Snowboarding at Schweitzer Mountain''30 minutes from Sandpoint is''Schweitzer Mountain Resort,''the largest ski resort in Idaho. It was our last stop on our epic three-month snowboarding tour and we were stoked to learn they received over 400″ of snowfall in the 2017/2018 season. When most people think of Idaho and skiing they think of Sun Valley, although Schweitzer is a larger area, cheaper, and has far fewer people.''Just because Schweitzer isn’t as much of a resort town as Vail, Park City Utah, or Big Sky doesn’t mean there aren’t great facilities here. At the base of the mountain lies a small ski village that caters to all. There are a few on mountain lodging options, restaurants, bars, ski shop, and even a wine cellar. The village has everything you could need for an all-inclusive family ski vacation.The road up to Schweitzer is very much a steep mountain road and with winter conditions, drivers should take extra caution. Being the 16th largest ski resort in the US it’s completely possible to ski and snowboard on weekends without feeling the crowds (which is exactly what we did). Schweitzer boasts some impressive terrains with easily accessible bowls and gladed areas.''Loved the quiet glades!''It can get pretty steep!''The lift system here is modern and updated and claims the “only six-person\xa0chart in Idaho.”\xa0 We gave this six-person chairlift a whirl, which was near the Outlaw restaurant and felt like we were entering another Westword. Check it out!''That’s a chairlift – not an amusement park ride!''Unlike many other ski resorts, Schweitzer Mountain\xa0owns the mountain meaning they can build where and what they want and run on their own rules. Thankfully, the bells and whistles and modernity haven’t drawn in the crazy crowds that some of their nearby counterparts have. It also means that you may see a snowboarder ripping it down the mountain with a cocktail from the local bar in hand. It’s all part of the fun!''From the new Summit House restaurant, you can catch views of Idaho, Montana, Washington, and Canada on a clear day! The view of\xa0Lake Pend Oreille is seriously one of the most impressive we have seen from a mountaintop. Schweitzer has 2900 skiable acres, 92 trails plus open bowl skiing. We didn’t hit Schweitzer on a powder day, but if it were dumping I imagine the bowls would be epic. Schweitzer caters well to families with 50% of their runs classified as beginner and intermediate and basically, all runs will eventually lead you to a lift here.''I loved learning that the\xa0ski school, lift crew, and patrol are all managed by women and that the resort has donated over $150,000 to the community this past year!''Selkirk Powder Company''also works with Schweitzer Mountain to offer adrenaline junkies the chance to go heliskiing, cat skiing, and snowmobiling. All of these operations run right from the resort so there is no need to drive anywhere into the backcountry to get those unspoiled fresh lines. We went snowmobiling with Selkirk and loved getting into the nature on the back of the mountain. We had our fingers crossed for a moose sighting but settled on some tracks and amazing views. Next time we’re trying cat-skiing!''Walk up lift ticket prices are $79'', which is the best price we have seen for a big resort in North America.''Check out lift tickets here.''Stay and Eat:''We stayed at Schweitzer’s on-mountain lodging.''Selkirk Lodge''provides clean and spacious rooms, free breakfast, and a great pool area overlooking the mountain. For those on a budget, there is plenty of lodging in Sandpoint.''We love using Airbnb!''Definitely head down to Sandpoint to have dinner at''Trinity At City Beach''– their food is fabulous and the location on the lake can’t be beaten. Afterward, head to''MickDuff’s Brewing Company''for a craft brew.''This is just a taster of some of the ski resorts in Idaho you can explore. The states most well-known ski destination is Sun Valley, but there are a few others such as Bogus Basin, Cottonwood Butte, and Tamarack. Wherever it is you will be blown away by the mountains and natural beauty of Idaho.''Read Next:''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''The Best Winter Packing List for Europe and Beyond''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''Ski Sun Peaks Resort • The Perfect Canadian Winter Destination''Five Ski Resorts in the Canadian Rockies You Haven’t Heard About''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''April 24, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''April 19, 2018''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''was last modified:''April 24th, 2018''by''Natasha''Looking the best things to do in Iceland on your next trip? We go over 30 awesome activities, sights, and things to do while on the island of fire and ice.\xa0There is hardly a country in the world that packs as many jaw-dropping landscapes in such a short amount of time. The beauty attracts you, but the diversity makes you never want to leave.\xa0In a place as engrossing as Iceland, it can be tough to narrow down what to do and see.''30 Things to do in Iceland''Drive Iceland’s Ring Road''This is one of the most popular things to do in Iceland. Route 1 or the “''Ring Road''” circumnavigates the entire island nation and hits a number of great sights along the journey. What makes the trip so popular is that it allows for visitors to see the diverse landscape of Iceland and presents a plethora of detours throughout the country.''The first thing we did in Iceland was''pick up our campervan''and hit the road for a 12-day adventure. You can drive the ring road all year round, but we found it to be one of the best things to do in Iceland in September and October. We’ve discussed our full''Ring Road itinerary and share tips here''!''Rent a camper''Speaking of campervans we found one of the best ways to experience Iceland was with our own set of wheels. It should be no surprise that accommodation is expensive in Iceland. A campervan can minimize your accommodation expenses, it paid off big time for our trip. Our campervan came with a mini kitchen so we didn’t have to worry about dining out in the world’s most expensive country.''We loved the freedom we had with the campervan''. For a good rental company try''Happy Campers''. They are family run, have excellent reviews, and great customer service. If you want to have a similar experience we are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“.''Snap a photo at Kirkjufellsfoss''This waterfall may be the smallest on this list, but its the location near Mount Kirkjufell that sets it apart from the rest. It’s a hotspot for photographers as they can capture the waterfall with the iconic mountain in the background.''To get this iconic photo you’ll have to battle other visitors for a sacred parking spot nearby. Yes, this place is no secret and many people come here every day to photograph Kirkjufellsfoss with Mount Kirkjufell in the background.''Overlook Hraunfossar''These are some of our favorite waterfalls in Iceland and we were lucky enough to catch them as the birch trees turned orange during October.\xa0 If you have ever been to''Plitvice Lakes in Croatia''we felt Hraunfossar was very similar, just on a smaller scale.''Stand under Skogafoss''If you could picture a waterfall in your head it would be Skogafoss. The classic shape of this Icelandic waterfall along with\xa0its convenient location and accessibility make this a waterfall a hit with everyone. It was easily one of our favorites on our Ring Road trip around Iceland. If you want to feel humbled just stand near the base of the waterfall. If you’re feeling adventurous and up for getting wet you are definitely able to\xa0stand just meters away from the misty base of the waterfall. There’s also a staircase to the side of Skogafoss leading to the top where you can overlook the area.''Chase all the waterfalls''There are''waterfalls all over Iceland'', so that’s why we made a list of some of the more popular ones. It’s almost impossible to get an approximate number, as glaciers melt and form small waterfalls that feed rivers and streams. If you love chasing waterfalls then one of the best things for you to do in Iceland is to grab a''camera''and stop at every one you see to snap a photo.''That being said, some of the more notable ones:''Goðafoss'': Waterfall of the gods in the Northeast''Háifoss'': A bit off the beaten track, but one of the highest in Iceland''Morsárfoss'': Highest waterfall in Iceland''Dettifoss'': The most powerful waterfall in Europe''Gullfoss'': Along the Golden Circle and one of the most popular falls to visit''Seljalandsfoss'': You can stand behind this waterfall.''Tour around the Golden Circle''The Golden Circle in Iceland is the most popular day trip in Iceland from the capital of Reykjavik. It’s definitely one of the best things to do in Iceland if you’re short on time. It’s a 230km route that features some of Iceland’s most stunning natural landmarks that are all on a days drive.''Most people opt for a bus tour, but we suggest picking up a vehicle and driving the Golden Circle yourself! The route covers the three main stops of\xa0Þingvellir National Park, Geysir, and Gullfoss. You can read our guide on''how to drive the Golden Circle''.''Catch the sunset at Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon''This lagoon in Southeastern Iceland is a highlight of any trip to Iceland. The lagoon has formed over time from the massive glacier above. As the glacier melts cool glacier water and icebergs mix with the ocean.''It’s easily one of the most beautiful places on earth! Head here around sunset or during the midnight sun for an unreal scene as the sun glistens off the ice. You may even get lucky and spot a seal! (We saw two!)''Lick an ice cube at Diamond Beach''Right across the street from\xa0Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon is Diamond Beach so be sure not to miss it. On Diamond Beach, you can watch the giant ice pieces crash into the ocean waves. It doesn’t take long to understand the beach’s name, as large chunks of glacial ice are strung along the beach glistening like diamonds.''Steep in the Blue Lagoon''You either love or hate The Blue Lagoon. It is a tourist trap and overpriced. However, for many, the chance to take their vacation photos and lounge around the gorgeous pool is too much of a draw to care.''If you’re on a budget I would give the Blue Lagoon a skip and head to one of Iceland’s many public geothermal pools. If you want a transfer from the airport as you are short on time''here’s a good tour'', it does make for a cool layover.''Hang with locals at the pool''Most towns in Iceland have a public swimming pool as it’s considered a public necessity. Over the last century, they have become an important part of Icelandic culture. It is a place where Icelanders get active, relax, and socialize. They aren’t just for locals though, foreigners are welcome too. We made an effort to go to as many swimming pools as possible when camping on the ring road. If you are camping a pool will also give you the chance to shower and relax the back.''Swimming pools entrance fees run between 600-1000 Icelandic Kroner, which is a fraction of the price of a Blue Lagoon or Secret Lagoon ticket. They all will have at least one main pool for swimming and two different hot tubs for relaxing. Some pools even have saunas, ice tubs, water slides, and steam rooms!\xa0Public pools are fed by geothermic water and have minimal treatment with few chemicals. Due to the few chemicals, it’s public law that you must shower nude before entering the pool, showers are divided by sex.''Enjoy the black sand beaches''Black beaches aren’t something seen every day unless you’re touring around Iceland. There are a few spots to see the dramatic black sand beaches. Reynisfjara, near Vik, is probably the most well-known and visited''black sand beach in Iceland'', and is easily accessible from Reykjavik.''Climb a glacier''While you’re at Jökulsárlón, you may as well''conquer the biggest glacier in Europe''(Vatnajökull glacier) nearby!\xa0This challenging experience is one of Iceland’s most memorable. We suggest any active traveler strap on some crampons and prepare to climb a massive glacier with mesmerizing views. It’s not the expansive landscape that is will steal your breath away, but when you enter the ice caves within the glacier. What’s better than telling your friends back home you went ice climbing in Iceland?''Go horseback\xa0riding''Horses are an integral facet of Icelandic culture and it’s a great activity to explore Iceland’s landscape. Icelandic horses are small in comparison to other horses you may be used to, but they have a very distinctive gait style that makes riding them exceptionally smooth to ride.''The “''Tölt''” is one of the five gaits of an Icelandic horse and is what makes this breed so different than any other on earth.\xa0The horses are known for being well natured and strong horses, and not to mention beautiful.''Check here for tour options''.''Watch the Northern Lights''We consider the Northern Lights one of the greatest spectacles on earth and Iceland may be the best place in the world to witness them. The best time to see the lights are in the winter months when the night sky is dark (October – April). Keep in mind they are never guaranteed and you’ll need to be in a remote location away from city lights to see them.''Generally, the lights are active once a week, but you’ll need a clear night sky to see them. For those staying in Reykjavik, they do offer''boat tours from the harbor''that take you out to sea and away from city lights. If you want to photograph the Northern Lights you will''100% need a tripod''on stable ground (not a rocking boat).''Explore Landmannalaugar''All visitors should explore the fascinating landscape of Landmannalaugar. The rugged area feels like another planet and requires a tough 4×4 vehicle to access.\xa0You’ll find the wild rhyolite mountains, lava fields, hot springs, and the notorious Hekla volcano. It all feels like another planet and makes for amazing landscape photography opportunities.''Scuba between tectonic plates''Many people don’t know that you can go scuba diving between two continents. In the Silfra fissure, it’s possible to dive into freshwater between the North American and Eurasian titanic plates. While it may be a bit chilly the glacier water has been filtered through the lava field and is so clear that the visibility is about 100 meters!''Diving here is only available with a tour''.''See puffins!''Iceland is one of the best places in the world to spot puffins. If you love wildlife, then this has to be at the top of your Iceland bucket list. There are plenty of places around the country to see puffins. Most notably in Vestmannaeyjar,\xa0Látrabjarg,\xa0Vigur Island,\xa0Papey.''If you have a car you can get to these places yourself, or you can hop on a tour and sail just outside of the capital to see them in Akurey, Engey or Lundey. Puffin sightings are only possible in the summer due to their migration patterns. (May, June, July, and August).''Go to the top of Hallgrímskirkja Church''Designed by Guðjón Samúelsson in 1937, this church is an iconic piece of architecture in Reykjavik that any visitor should take the time to see. It’s fun to see the beautiful church from the outside, but once inside you’ll hear chords from the gargantuan pipe organ. For a great view of the city to venture to the top of the tower inside for 1000 ISK and see the amazing views over Reykjavik.''Admire the beauty of the Diamond Circle''The Diamond Circle route is in northern Iceland with four popular stops. Lake Mývatn, Húsavík,\xa0Ásbyrgi Canyon, and\xa0Dettifoss Waterfall are the main stops, but you can also add on\xa0Goðafoss Waterfall,\xa0Dark Castles, and Eider Falls to the route. If you don’t have time to do the full Ring Road, the Diamond Circle is a good alternative that shows you some of the best of Iceland.''Smell the Hverir Geothermal Area''Hverir geothermal area here is like walking on another planet! Get ready for the smell of sulfur, steam vents, and plenty of geothermal pools here. The geothermal area is easily accessible as it’s right off the ring road by Lake Mývatn. There is a viewing platform to take in the whole landscape, but it’s also possible to walk around and have fun around the vents.''Have a date night in Reykjavik''Iceland is one of the most expensive countries in the world and the high costs are reflected in the food and alcohol. However, when you are in one of the coolest capital cities in the world we suggest you have at least one or two nights out in Reykjavik. There is a large nightlife scene that’s vibrant on weekends and summer months. The best food we had in Reykjavik was at Matarkjallarinn, that serves modern Icelandic cuisine. They have live music or a pianist playing every night and on weekends the cocktail bar here is packed with patrons.''There is almost a bar on every corner of the capital so it won’t be hard to find a good one. Many offer happy hour specials so make sure to do your research and get there a little bit early for a deal. Keep in mind that the sun never sets during the Icelandic summer so when you walk out of the bar at 2 am you may be a little bit confused.''Descend into a Volcano''What better activity to check off your Iceland bucket list than volcano diving? Inside Þríhnúkagígur you will descend 120 meters into a\xa0gigantic chamber, only to be overcome by shimmering hues of pink, blues, and oranges. The colors inside Þríhnúkagígur are sure enough to dazzle any visitor.''The dormant volcano is accessible only accessible with a guided tour''.''Take a day hike from Reykjavik''Looking for a quick break from the city life while staying in Reykjavik? There are plenty of challenging, yet magnificent hikes to stretch your legs. The best part is you don’t have to travel far to get to them! Esjan, Glymur, Hveragerði, Gjáin, Seljavallalaug are all located within an hour of Reykjavik and are accessible by public transport (and of course two feet).''All of these hikes are well worth a day in my opinion; however, the climb up Esjan is a favorite. Once at the top you are\xa0rewarded with a stunning view of Reykjavik. It’s not just around the capital though. There are great spots around the whole country to get out and hike!''Cozy Up in a Hot Spring''Iceland may be short of McDonald’s, palm trees, and Starbucks, but it does certainly not fall short in the hot spring category. All over the country are natural hot springs and geysers can be found and they are idealistic spots to take a warm (or incredibly hot) dip in (and I’m not referring to the Blue Lagoon). Don’t forget some local beer and a''swimsuit''!''Hit the slopes''In the winter time, Iceland becomes a''ski or snowboarding fanatics playground.''Iceland has a few different ski resorts around the country, but they’re mostly reserved for locals. Expert skiers will rejoice at the ski tour possibilities.\xa0We personally love snowboarding, but we weren’t there at the right time of year. For those that visit January through April check out the epic ski conditions.''Hop on a Snowmobile''Zoom across the top of a glacier for an adventurous thing to do in Iceland.''Snowmobile tours''are extremely popular and make a great way to get out of the car. If you aren’t up for hiking along the glacier this is exciting experience gets you up close and personal to the\xa0incredible glaciers.''Go whale watching''Whale watching is a popular thing to do in Iceland. Many visitors will venture right out from Reykjavik, but one of the best places to spot whales is off the coast of Northern Iceland. The capital of the North and second largest city, Akuyeri makes for a great base to explore the Northern Coastline. The best time to spot whales is from May to September.''Seljavallalaug''Seljavallalaug''is the oldest pool in Iceland and it’s set in a gorgeous valley. To reach the pool you need to take a short drive down a bad gravel road and then hike 20 minutes. The pool isn’t much for swimming with abandoned changing facilities, chilly water, and poor water circulation. That being said it’s well worth a stop and photo.''This Iceland bucket list doesn’t even scratch the surface of what Iceland has to offer, but it is a good starting point. So get out there and enjoy Iceland!''Read Next:''A First Timer’s Guide To Iceland Grocery Stores & Supermarkets''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''When is the Best Time to Visit Iceland? The Honest Truth''The Ultimate Iceland Travel Guide''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''Wondering What to do in Helsinki? We Have You Covered''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''The Rockies of Colorado are synonymous\xa0with ski. It’s well known and publicized that Colorado is home to the best ski resorts in North America and by some accounts in the world.\xa0We made our first visit to the state to the check three of the best ski resorts in Colorado. It was our first full season of riding and by the time we reached Colorado, we were ready to test our legs on the amazing terrain at Keystone, Breckenridge, and Aspen.''Here’s all the details so hopefully you can bring the family, significant other, or friends and do it yourself!''Our Favorite Colorado Ski Resorts''Keystone Ski Resort''Our first stop on tour snowboard tour of Colorado was Keystone Resort. We couldn’t have asked for more beautiful sunny Colorado days as we explored the three mountains of Keystone. The three peaks are in a row stretching out from the base area so the further you go the quieter the runs. A highlight of any trip to Keystone has to be the sunset laps you can take. The front mountain lifts run until 8 p.m every night, meaning you can ride as the sun goes down.''We’ve had sunrise rides,''but never sunsets and find it completely unique to the resort.''The first mountain, Decorum Mountain, is largely aimed at beginners and intermediates. It offers long enjoyable runs that are often groomed and perfect for an awesome cruise. While, the furthest mountain, The Outback, happens to be the resorts highest peak just under 12,000 feet in elevation. We found it to be a surefire bet for the quietest groomed runs in the resort. If you’re a competent skier the glade areas of the Windows and the powder bowls are often very quiet during the week.''If you’re looking for some thrills there are a number of inbounds bowls that are within hiking distance to the nearest lift, or you can save yourself the hassle with a $10 Cat ski ride. If you plan to take the Cat ski ride make sure to have some cash for payment.''There are a number of factors that set Keystone Resort apart from the other resorts of Colorado. The resort offers free skiing to children, has the longest ski day in Colorado, and is easy driving distance from Denver. Accommodation prices in Keystone are generally cheaper than the surrounding resorts of Vail Valley.''Keystones close proximity to Denver does serve as a negative on the weekends as the resort becomes crowded. If you’re not used to lift lines then I would recommend visiting on the weekday. We generally started the day on the Outback peak and worked our way to Decorum as ski patrols close the back mountains earlier in the day.''The cute resort village at Keystone keeps true to Colorado’s mining roots which is apparent as soon as you walk around. There is plenty of parking at the ski resort and best of all resort parking is free, something that is not always a given at resorts in Colorado. In addition, a large selection of homes and condominiums offer visitors plenty of options for affordable accommodation. We stayed at the''River Run Condominiums''which were incredibly comfortable and homey.''Lift Ticket Cost:''Adult – $149\xa0• Youth – $86 • Child – $0\xa0• Senior – $139''(Book Tickets Here)''Runs/Skiable Terrain:''128''•''3'',149 acres''Favorite Runs:''School Marm,''Victory Chutes, Anticipation, Oh Bob, Upper Windows''Trail Map:''Link to Website''Breckenridge Ski Resort''If you want to find the most popular resort in Colorado it would have to be Breckenridge. With almost 3,400 feet of vertical drop and a countless number of bowls''and''an easy drive from Denver, it’s easy to see the appeal. The appeal extends beyond the epic skiing because\xa0Breckenridge is the full vacation package. At this Colorado ski resort, you can expect just about everything you could want from a ski trip and it’s easy to see why it draws such a crowd.''Despite the size, the resort is pretty easy to navigate as it is spread along the front side of several peaks. There is plenty of terrain for every skill set, with beginner, intermediate, advanced, and expert level runs including a few extreme rated double black diamond runs. All of this sits on top of a former mining town that is now full of bars, shopping,\xa0gorgeous cabins, restaurants, and luxury hotels. It’s an enticing mix and for those big into the apres ski scene Breckenridge is regarded as having one of the best in the world.''We’d seen some vertical this winter'', but with a base elevation of 9,600 feet even we were gasping for air while walking uphill.\xa0Anyone looking to up the ante and tackle some expert terrain will find that the resort’s bowls are easily accessed by the''highest chairlift in North America.''The Imperial lift is a highlight of anyone’s trip to\xa0 Breckenridge. Despite having a lackluster snow season we were still able to dig in and find fresh lines at Breck. With some 3″ of fresh snow, we got first tracks on the Magic Carpet, The Contest Bowl, and all sorts of pockets in between runs and under chairlifts.''For those staying in slopeside accommodation, you have the chance to take part in''First Tracks Friday.''Every Friday the Mercury Super Chair opens up at 7:45 so you can enjoy fresh corduroy early in the morning before the crowds arrive.''The area has a plethora of winter activities to enjoy. You can scream down an alpine coaster, dog sled, cross-country ski, ice skate, sleigh ride, or ride a snowmobile. We hit the trails and climbed the continental divide on a pair of snowmobiles with Good Times. It was our first time on the snow machines and loved every minute of it! It’s the easiest way to get views like these in the winter:''After a long day on the slopes head into the former mining town. Be sure to check out the Broken Compass and the Breckenridge Distillery for an amazing post ski drink.''The Broken Compass''is just outside of town but carries a strong locals vibe with bring your own food, families, and dogs. For delicious craft cocktails and a fresh kitchen, you need to check out the''Breckenridge Distillery''nearby the brewery.''We stayed at the ski-in-ski-out''One Ski Hill Place.''The lodge is replete with stand out amenities like two private movie theatres, complimentary transportation to town, a plethora of fireplaces, full spa and fitness center, and bowling alley. There are a wide range of rooms from studio rooms to four bedroom condos. We stayed in a one bedroom and loved a well stocked modern kitchen, fireplace, balcony, and king bed. There was more to be applauded with an initiative to reduce plastic waste with filtered water in the rooms, a modern ski room, and free parking in a heated garage in the basement of the building.''Lift Ticket Cost:''Adult – $169 • Child – $110 • Senior – $110''(Book Tickets Here)''Runs/Skiable Terrain:''187''•''2,9''08 acres''Favorite Runs:''Magic Carpet, Contest Bowl, Horseshoe Bowl, Ore Bucket, Gold King, Sundowner''Trail Map:''Link to Website''Aspen Snowmass''If we were to pick our favorite resort in Colorado it would have to be Aspen Snowmass. This shouldn’t be much of a surprise as it is celebrated around the world, but that does mean it comes with the highest price tag we’ve seen for a ski resort (in the world). Aspen is well known for being the ski destination for the rich and famous so you would figure they want the best their money can get. The price of one lift ticket does come with four ski resorts – Aspen Highlands, Aspen Snowmass, Buttermilk, and Aspen Mountain.''Each mountain delivers something unique. Aspen Highlands is the famed expert’s mountain with a massive in-bounds bowl. Buttermilk is for the jibbers with a large terrain park and beginners with nice mellow blues and green runs. Aspen Mountain is perfect for ski-in-ski-out groomed beginner and intermediate runs, but don’t let it deceive you the ski area also has some seriously steep double black diamonds.''With limited time we went to the largest resort with the greatest variety, Aspen Snowmass. You can find chutes, cliff faces, groomers, moguls, glades, terrain parks, and even a half pipe at Snowmass. It has just about everything anyone could want! We got lucky with four inches of fresh snow on a late season powder day.\xa0The highlight of our trip was a ride down Roberto’s an extreme rated double black a chute a few meters wide, that’s actually the widest extreme expert chute. The chute runs right into the Frog Pond Glades that offer tight tree skiing with plenty of fresh lines and deep powder. Do be careful and always ride or ski with a partner, tree wells are a serious threat to light and dry powder. Skiing is a serious affair in Aspen, there’s a reason so many legendary riders and skiers\xa0call Aspen “home.”''While the expert level runs on the mountain were certainly the thrilling part of our day the groomers off of the Sheer Bliss and Village Express stole our hearts away. It’s tough to beat a fresh layer of powder on an even grade slope with a few trees.''We stayed at the''Aspen Meadows Resort''located five minutes down a quiet residential road. The 98 suites are in six buildings strewn about the 40-acre property. The “Bauhaus” architecture feels at home and odd against the surrounding birch trees and mountains. With its location just outside of the town, you manage to escape the mild hubbub and noise of the popular ski resort. Our quiet evenings in our hotel room were spent deer milling around the surrounding nature.''For all of its fame, the town of Aspen is surprisingly down to earth just like''Lech am Arlberg in Austria''. In Aspen, you’ll find fur-clad socialites walking alongside duct-tape-clad-ski-bums. It also happens to be the only ski town we know of where you can shop at a Gucci, Prada, Dior, and Ralph Lauren.''Lift Ticket Cost:''Adult – $155 • Youth – $102 • Child – $0\xa0• Senior – $102''(Book Tickets Here)''Runs/Skiable Terrain:''145''•''3'',3322 acres''Favorite Runs:''Robertos, Hanging Frog Glades (''Tree Well Risk!'')''Aspen Snowmass Trail Map:''Link to Website''Read Next:''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''Ski Sun Peaks Resort • The Perfect Canadian Winter Destination''Five Ski Resorts in the Canadian Rockies You Haven’t Heard About''The Ultimate Ski (and Snowboard) Trip Packing List''Skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria • 13 Balkan Ski Holiday Tips''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''April 24, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''April 19, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''was last modified:''April 19th, 2018''by''Natasha''Whether we are traveling or not, there’s one question that always comes up when we meet new people.''So, what do you guys do?''Gulp, I knew that one was coming. If Cameron’s with me I generally wait for him to answer because I hate where this conversation goes.''“We’re travel bloggers,” he’ll say in his general enthusiastic tone.''I know what they are thinking now. How privileged we are and how nice it must be to write down some words and say we are bloggers. No “real” money can be made out of blogging – our parents must be funding our adventures around the world. Nine times out of 10.''No.''9.5 times out of 10 the next question is now in regards to our money making skills.''“Wow, that’s really interesting, and you make money that way? How do travel bloggers make money?”''Would you ask a stranger?''It’s such an interesting conversation to me. Personally, I would never walk around asking construction workers, doctors, artists, sewer cleaners or strippers how they make money. But I try to imagine if I wasn’t a technology driven millennial\xa0who first got online at age 10. With that I totally get the questions and curiosity. I mean, travel blogging isn’t your typical way to earn money.''Heck, I don’t think anyone knows exactly how travel bloggers make money besides bloggers/YouTubers themselves. Even half of them have no idea how the others are making a real income. My parents and friends certainly don’t, they just know I make money on the internet “somehow” from the internet gods.''Sometimes, I actually like the internet god theory better than explaining all the revenue streams not just for travel bloggers, but all bloggers/vloggers/”influencers” in general. I just received another email in my inbox today asking how we fund our travels, how we make money, and how to follow in our footsteps. It’s the perfect opportunity for me to address these questions for readers once and for all!''Can travel bloggers make real money?''Absolutely. Some of the top travel bloggers make''good''money, but many make almost nothing. That’s because a travel blog is easy to set up, but hard to stick with and stay motivated enough to turn it into a full-time job. Many travel bloggers start their\xa0blog with the intention to make money, but it quickly fades to a hobby once they realize the workload. Travel bloggers can make anything from $100-$30,000 a month, some of the very top can make more. Don’t think that 30,000 number comes easy though – numbers like that take''years''of hard work and dedication.''It’s not just travel bloggers that make money though. There are bloggers for everything nowadays. Lifestyle, food, beauty, airline, political, health, mommy, construction bloggers, car bloggers – seriously pick a passion and blog about it. In fact, I find that travel bloggers make the least amount of money compared to their food and lifestyle counterparts. Top bloggers are mini celebrities and can bring in millions of dollars a year, but those are few and far and between.''If you are a travel blogger, you have to travel, and travel costs a lot more money than kitchenware or makeup. Not everyone wants to travel either, but most women wear makeup and want to dress up night. So, we’re limited to a smaller potential audience – you see where I’m going? Travel bloggers may spend the most on their job, but may find it harder to build an audience than most other niches.''Is it easy to get started travel blogging?''We’ve gotten many emails from first-time travelers asking us how they can start a blog and get hotel stays and it always makes my head spin. Would you want to be a chef without any cooking experience or get sent to the ER without ever stepping foot in a hospital?\xa0Blogging should be something that you are passionate about and build up experience.''I traveled for well over a year before ever thinking about starting a blog. I''loved''traveling, seeing new places, eating new food, and making new friends well before I had ever even looked at a travel blog. It was later when Cameron and''I were living in New York City''that I convinced him to drop everything and start a blog together. We wanted to see the world together, take better photos, share our experiences, and make enough money to support our travels.''What I’m trying to say is it’s not a great idea to start something you don’t have experience with first. Find a passion and try to turn it into a job otherwise, you’ll go crazy. If your goal is to make a quick buck travel blogging you’re going to have a tough time. It a huge time investment, self-determination, and commitment like any new business. It’s a marathon,\xa0not a sprint.''The early days of my travels''Then I still had a flip phone. Now I’m online every day.''How long will it take to start making money?''We always tell people that our first-year travel blogging was more like an internship. We made almost no money, worked long hours, and completely relied on our savings to travel and produce content. Our travel blog began with the intention to make money, so I believe we made money quicker than many other bloggers who don’t get into business mode as fast as we did.''The first couple months of this blog we were rather lazy about it. We posted random articles, worked every so often, and took sub-par photos, but we were learning how it all worked. We received our first $400 check eight months after launching “The World Pursuit” and scored our first comped hotel stay seven months after launch. It was a long haul just to get there. Since then, we have continued to build our brand, audience, and channels. Along the way we have developed professional relationships in the travel industry and developed credible names in the industry.''Every month since that first $400 has been better and better. The general consensus I get after talking to fellow travel bloggers is it takes''one to two years''before you can make a buck from travel blogging. With blogging it takes a long time to learn what you are doing and how to do it correctly. The learning never stops either, we’re still constantly working to better our site and brand.''How do travel bloggers make money?''Now here is what you came here for – how travel bloggers make money! These are some of the models we use to support ourselves, but keep in mind this is the internet and digital nomads now have an endless amount of ways to make money online. We make money directly from our travel blog, but we also make money from the opportunities our blog presents us.''Affiliate Marketing''Affiliate marketing can be one of the easiest and most lucrative ways to make money with a blog. Affiliate Marketing is when we market a product through our site and when a reader goes on to buy that product we get a small commission of that sale. Essentially we are the middle man that helps readers and consumers discover new things they may not have known about.''This costs nothing extra to the consumer and we only recommend products and companies that we personally love. I say that affiliate marketing is the easiest because once you set it up on your site you are done. It’s referred to as “passive income” because we don’t have to do anything extra to make commissions.''Of course, it takes time to properly set up and requires readers that trust your recommendations so it’s not completely effortless. It took at least a year to build a reputation and relationship with our audience online. Also, every blog post we write on here takes us anywhere between five to 10 hours (sometimes more) from start to finish. It also takes a lot of time to learn SEO (search engine optimization), so we can ensure our content ranks on Google. It is a massive part of blogging that almost all successful bloggers must tackle to be successful. Social media will only bring so much traffic to your website. (Unless you’re a Pinterest Ninja –''which I conveniently am'').''We make between''$3000-$7000''through affiliate marketing, but every month depends on search trends and seasons. Some places you may notice affiliate links on this website are through''Amazon'',''World Nomads''Skyscanner,''Patagonia'', and''REI''.''Display Ads''You may have noticed a few ads throughout our site. I am sincerely sorry about those. There’s nothing I hate more than a ton of ads and popups when I browse around online. However, it does help us keep this site up and running. Those ads allow us to travel and produce unbiased information, thank you for understanding! In today’s age, almost every website I visit has ads. Facebook has ads, CNN has obnoxious ads, YouTube has ads, and Instagram has ads – I believe people are very used to it now.''Display ads are another form of passive income. Once you set up display ads on a website there isn’t much more work involved. However, you do need readers and eyeballs on a page to actually make money from ads. It took a year and a half for us to implement ads on our site because we didn’t want to burden it. We’ve partnered with an exclusive ad site called''Mediavine''to dish these out (another good one is''Adthrive''). Mediavine requires a certain number of visitors before they’ll consider working with you and we have loved the experience thus far. Through display ads we typically make between''$2000-$4000 a month''.''Brand partnerships/sponsored posts''A sponsored post is pretty much a post on a blog that is sponsored by a company in a bloggers niche. Typically a brand will reach out hoping to get their company or website in front of an audience on a blog. We pick up maybe one or two of these a month but turn a lot down as our prices are high and we like to write on our own topics.''If the said product fits in well with our current travel plans we can more easily fit them into a post, which is ideal. We make anywhere from''$500-$1500''per sponsored post, but keep in mind it took our blog a long time to get to those prices and they will likely increase the more our website grows.''Here’s an exampled of a sponsored post''.''Product Reviews''A product review is essentially the same thing as a sponsored post, but normally it will revolve around one product and generally, they are newer products. Product reviews involve us receiving a product, testing it out, and analyzing if we think it’s helpful for travelers or not. These take a bit more time as it involves going through the whole testing phase, but sometimes you find yourself with some really unique products.\xa0We make anywhere from''$500-$1500''on these posts in addition to the commission we make through each product sold.''Here’s an example of a product review''.''Photography/Videography''When I said above that “We make money directly from our travel blog, but we also make money from the opportunities our blog presents us,” photography and videography are a good example. We’ve been contacted by tourism boards, hotels, and lodges that are in need of images and videos for their website or social channels. Typically these companies find us through our social media channels and website. It definitely pays to build up your presence everywhere online. We’ve sold images and videos for anywhere between''$150-$2500''.''Although we both have film backgrounds and have enjoyed taking photographs for a long time, it took us years to get those “travel shots.” Photography is an art and every day we travel we are thinking about how we can take better photos. Thankfully, it’s easy to learn but I wouldn’t expect to start selling photography without some nice shots under your belt first.''Check out a few of our shots''!''Freelance Work''Like the photography, a freelance writing gig technically isn’t making money off your blog, but because a blog is essentially a portfolio of your work. We don’t do much freelance writing anymore, but when we were starting out we would write stories and tips about our travels for websites that weren’t our own for some extra income. We’ve charged anywhere from''$100''an article to''$1.50''per word.''Here’s an example of an article we wrote for Spotahome''.''Destination Marketing''Sometimes tourism board will reach out to us to help promote travel to their destination. Typically all expenses will be covered – flights, food, accommodation, and activities in exchange for blog posts and social media shares. This is an example of an unpaid campaign. Most of these are unpaid, but the holy grail for travel bloggers is to get paid in addition to the trip costs. This is a paid campaign, and of course is ideal but doesn’t always happen.''We don’t mind taking unpaid trips if it’s somewhere we are dying to go. (Like a few of our recent trips to''Tanzania,''Zambia,''Kenya,''and''Northern Italy''). If it’s somewhere that we really were not planning to travel to we charge a packaged rate for deliverables.''Many people like to think destination marketing is just a free trip. Let any blogger tell you there is nothing free about the trip. When we are hosted we are constantly staging photos, creating live social media updates, meeting local representatives, learning about the destinations, and packing in every activity possible. Not to mention that the blog post afterward takes a lot of work. It’s not just sitting back drinking piña colodas all day. For paid destination marketing we can bring in''$2000 – $5000 per project''.''Social Media Campaigns''Sometimes brands want to focus solely on their social media presence whether it be Instagram, Facebook, YouTube, or Twitter. The goal is to reach your followers through a tweet, photo, or article on Facebook. We don’t have a massive following on any of our channels, but we are happy with our modest travel community we have built relationships with over the years and we do charge to access that community. We are pretty selective with what we promote and only want to push products and companies we love so we don’t do many of these.''Here’s an example''of a recent social media campaign.''We’ll charge anything from $0-$500 a post.''$0 is for something that we pitched because we’re happy with just getting a nice product or hotel in exchange.''Social Media Takeovers''Occasionally\xa0brands will hire out travelers, photographers, and bloggers to take over their social account. I see this is as a win-win opportunity for both parties. As a\xa0blogger, you can easily reach a new audience when you take over a big brands account. From a brand standpoint having a real person behind your social media can give your channel a much more real and personal feeling, and also gain you new followers. We’ve only done a few of these like for''Skyscanner''and''this hotel in Zanzibar,''but I know a few people that do social media takeovers full time. For weeklong social takeovers we charge between''$300-$1000''.''Brand Ambassadorship''Brand Ambassadorship is when a blogger has a more long-term relationship with a brand. Sometimes it can be a campaign that spreads across a few months, or it can be on a more monthly or quarterly basis. Every contract is different with longer-term partnerships. Sometimes it can be a lump sum for a set number of deliverables while others are a monthly retainer and prices can be between $1000-$20000.''Other ways travel bloggers make money''Instagram'': Some travel bloggers focus solely on their social channels. For the past couple of years Instagram has been king leading many people to abandon other outlets and make money just on Instagram. I’m sure if you’re on the platform you’ve seen your favorite Instagrammer promoting a product, more often than not they are getting paid to post that photo. Instagrammers can charge anywhere from''$50-$8000 a photo''.''Ebooks:''Many bloggers are self publishing their adventures or producing short travel guides. Having your own product like this is a key way to make money as a blogger.''Youtube:''This is technically not blogging, but more of “vlogging.” It seems trivial, but an entirely different set of rules applies here. It’s even tougher to make it as a vlogger as you need a serious following to generate an income. However, those that do make it to the top carry massive amounts of influence and can land top dollar ad campaigns in addition to the ad revenue they receive. We’re starting to focus more on''our YouTube videos this year.''Travel planning'': I’ve always wanted to help people plan their travels on a more one on one basis, but the truth is between the blog, traveling, and hobbies I don’t have much time. Nor are we much interested in becoming travel agents. Some bloggers charge an hourly fee to plan a custom trip for their readers.''Group tours:''This has become a common way for bloggers to meet their readers and diversify their income in the past year. Cameron and I are hoping to lead a group tour sometime in the next year as we would love to meet some of you! We have our sights set on leading a tour around''Namibia''or''Mozambique''– what do you think?''Anything and everything:''In today’s day and age of the internet there really is no hard set rules to making money online. I meet people all the time sharing new and innovative ways they are making money while being location dependent. Just have to think outside the box and have the willpower to do it!''I’ve never been one for discussing numbers, but I can say that 2018 is the year we will clear six figures with our website. It feels like we went from operating at a loss to padding our bank accounts in an instant. It has taken a lot of traveling, hard work, and sleepless nights to get to get to that point but we are very happy with the continued growth of our adventure blog. Unfortunately, there are two of us that have to live off the income from the website, but the power of two has also been the reason we’ve been able to have over 100,000 people read our blog every month.''How to make it as a travel blogger''There’s really no set answer to this besides patience, perseverance, and self-determination. Many people think we travel around the world living a completely carefree lifestyle, but the truth is we spend more time in front of the computer than I ever did at my old “real job” in New York. The difference is I can do it from anywhere in the world at any time of the day.''If you decide to start any type of blog, not just travel, do so because it is your passion first. Your blog is your baby so it’s best you truly care about it.''Become an authority on travel and other subjects. In an oversaturated market it’s important to differentiate yourself and your voice.''Diversify your income streams in case one fails (and it will).''Get on social media, YouTube, and become friends with Google!''Don’t get into travel blogging for the free trips. They aren’t worth all the work you will be putting into making your blog reputable. And nothing is free in life. You will be expected to work for any sort of comp.''Have a personality and don’t hide behind the keyboard. This means showing your face,''getting on video, and sharing what you are doing.''Know that you will fail more than once.''Know that you will waste time and resources. We have tried so many (and will try more) different things and angles with this blog and online venture. Sometimes it’s all worthwhile, but sometimes our efforts go nowhere. Accept and move on.''Is it too late to start a travel blog?''Before we started this travel blog I only followed a handful of other travelers. When we got into this in 2015, I didn’t realize that there were hundreds…if not thousands of travel blogs out there. It’s an oversaturated market that we got into''very''late in the game. I wish I had started a blog after my first trip abroad in 2011, but woulda shoulda coulda right?''While it certainly helps to be one of the first in anything, I still don’t think it is too late to start a blog. The internet isn’t going anywhere, social media isn’t going anywhere, YouTube isn’t going anywhere and brands are only becoming more and more aware of the power of bloggers and social marketing.''Your goal doesn’t have to be the top travel blogger, or to make a lot of money blogging. If you want to start a travel blog because you love traveling and storytelling then go for it!\xa0 If you do want to be well known and make money then go for that – just be aware of the workload and competition! Either way, blogging can teach you so much about marketing, traveling, SEO, and a whole rabbit hole of internet savviness that we are constantly unraveling.''Now if you’re ready to give it a go and start your own blog read on!''Read Next:''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''The 15 Best Travel Shoes for Women (2018 Edition)''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''was last modified:''April 28th, 2018''by''Natasha''Waterfalls in Iceland are the stuff of myths, legends, history, and folklore. The island nation is well known for its dramatic landscapes. It is known as the land of fire & ice so naturally, there are a plethora of waterfalls.\xa0There are literally so many waterfalls in Iceland it’s nearly impossible to count them all.''So how do you find the best waterfalls?\xa0In this post, we cover the best waterfalls in''Iceland''and where exactly to find them. I should also note that in Iceland nature is free, so you don’t have to pay anything to see these beautiful waterfalls up close.''Map to the Best Waterfalls in Iceland''Kirkjufellsfoss''This waterfall may be the smallest on this list, but its location near the 463 meter high Mount Kirkjufell that sets it apart from the rest. It’s a hotspot for photographers as they can capture the waterfall with the iconic mountain in the background. Being on the Snæfellsnes peninsula so close to Reykjavik it’s also one of the most popular. Come here at sunset and you’ll be bumping shoulders with the outer tourists all vying to get their show.''If you’re looking for the''best time to visit in Iceland''it would have to be summer as the midnight sun creates an amazingly long “golden hour.” To capture the best possible photo of both Mount Kirkjufell and Kirkjufellsfoss you’ll need a wide-angle lens.''Hraunfossar''Hraunfossar literally translates to “Lava Waterfalls.” It’s hard to convey the beauty here as Hraunfossar is a combination of creeks and large and small cascades streaming out of the lava over a distance of about 900 metres. A series of cascading waterfalls are formed from the\xa0Hallmundarhraun lava field and pour into the river Hvíta. The result is peaceful and serene. If you have been to Plitvice Falls in Croatia you can see the similarities.''These are some of our favorite waterfalls in Iceland and we were lucky enough to catch them as the birch trees turned orange.\xa0 They are located near the small, but lovely town of Husafell. The surrounding area\xa0is one of the few areas in Iceland you can still experience a forest. When we visited there was a parking attendant trying to collect 1000 ISK for parking at these falls, many people drove around him and didn’t pay the fee as enjoying nature in''Iceland is free.''Gullfoss''Gullfoss is the most popular waterfall in Iceland and it’s also one of the largest. The waterfall is a stop on the''Golden Circle route''along with Geysir Hot Spring and\xa0Þingvellir National Park. It’s a mesmerizing sight to watch the Hvítá River drop down a deep ravine. Make sure to bring your''favorite travel camera''and''a rain jacket''as the waterfalls produce a thick mist and frequent rainbows.''You can easily access the falls from a large parking lot with a pathway and steps that allow for visitors to walk along the edge of the mighty waterfall. There’s also a cafe, gift shop, and restroom nearby. Chances are you’ll be joined here with a few tour bus groups so try to avoid midday if you want to avoid the crowds.''Seljalandsfoss''Seljalandsfoss is one of Iceland’s most famous waterfalls and for good reason. The massive 65 meter high waterfall gives you the chance to hike behind the falls for a unique perspective. You’ll want to''bring rain gear''if you decide to stand behind\xa0Seljalandsfoss, or you will get soaked. It’s also important to note that in the winter times the path behind the waterfall may close due to slippery and uneven surfaces.''Seljalandsfoss is located just off the''Ring Road''on the South Coast before the town of Vik. It’s a stopping point for just about every tour and can easily be combined with a visit to Skogafoss.''Skógafoss''If you could picture a waterfall in your head it would be Skógafoss. The classic shape of this Icelandic waterfall along with\xa0its convenient location and accessibility make this a waterfall a hit with everyone.\xa0Skógafoss is located right off the ring road eight before or after the town of Vik – depending on where you come from.''It was easily one of our favorites and most photogenic waterfalls on our''Ring Road trip around Iceland''. If you want to feel humbled just stand near the base of the waterfall. What truly made the falls unforgettable for us is the ability to stand meters away from the misty base of the waterfall. There’s also a long staircase to the top of\xa0Skógafoss giving the most amazing views.''Dettifoss''Dettifoss is said to be the most powerful waterfall in Europe. The waterfall is monstrous and one of the most impressive natural landscapes in Iceland. You can hike right up to either side of the waterfall and you’ll feel the ground tremble beneath your feet. Its remote location in the North of Iceland makes for far fewer visitors than waterfalls on the South Coast of Iceland. The waterfall was most notably featured in the opening scene of Prometheus, check out the epic visuals from Ridley Scott’s opening.''Goðafoss''Goðafoss is one most famous waterfalls of Iceland, but in my opinion, it certainly is not its most impressive. The waterfall in the Northeast is still spectacular none the less as its 30m wide and 12m high. What makes the waterfall significant is its historical importance. In the year 1100, the law speaker chose to convert from the Old Norse religion and to Christianity. In doing so he cast his old deities into the waterfall giving the waterfall its new name. Goðafoss or\xa0“Waterfall of the Gods.”''Goðafoss is well worth a stop on any Route 1 journey. There’s a parking area nearby and from there you can easily walk around the falls. We got lucky and saw kayakers braving it down the massive fall while we were there! There’s a rest stop nearby, but not much else so come prepared with food if you want to have lunch by the Waterfall of the Gods.''Bruarfoss''You might come to realize that names in Iceland are quite literal.\xa0Brúarfoss means “Bridge Fall,” due to the fact at one point a natural stone bridge had formed over the narrow gorge formed by the waterfall. The glacial waters here are a deep blue and the waterfall is prized for its beauty. Locals have even declared it “Iceland’s bluest waterfall,” which is saying something!''Bruarafoss is not as well known as some of the other waterfalls on this list as it’s not easily accessible from the main road. It’s located in the west of Iceland and is less than an hour and half from Reykjavik, so if you’re up for an adventure and checking out a place many others don’t know about head here! Bruarfoss is a bit hard to find so I would recommend checking out this helpful video before you leave:''Svartifoss''Svartifoss is one of the most iconic waterfalls in Iceland as it is surrounded by basalt columns. The waterfall is located in\xa0Vatnajökull National Park, the largest national park in Europe. To reach the park you must hike around 30 minutes from the\xa0Skaftafell Visitor Center. It’s roughly 1.5km with a slight incline so just about anyone should be able to make the hike that passes two other waterfalls along the way.''The hike is well worth the views as you can see from the photo!''Háifoss''Háifoss is the fourth highest waterfall in Iceland. It’s a really impressive sight as the water rolls off the 122-meter sheer cliff to the Fossa River below. If you look in the photo above you’ll see the waterfall “Granni” to the right of Háifoss. I don’t want to show you the whole thing so you can be surprised when you get there. If you suffer from vertigo you won’t want to get too close to the edge here – it’s a long way down. It is possible to hike down if you know the way.''While we were visiting nearby Landmannalauger we convinced our guide to take us to\xa0Háifoss to grab some photos. I’m happy he did because our''Happy Camper''would not have done well on the worn road there.''The road up to the waterfall is rough for low clearance vehicles. While it is nothing compared to the roads we’ve''seen in Africa''we did see a stranded couple after busting their cars oil pan. So I would ensure a proper 4×4 or high clearance vehicle to make the trek to\xa0Háifoss.''Aldeyjarfoss''This is the second waterfall in a stunning series of waterfalls on the\xa0Skjálfandafljót river. It’s similar to Svartifoss as you’ll find more dark-colored basalt columns. The black basalt columns mixed with the white waters of the fall create a beautiful scene. It all adds to the allure and rugged beauty that Iceland contains.''The waterfall is accessible on a two hour detour from Goðafoss and requires a 4×4 to access it. Due it’s inaccessibility you could show up and be completely alone!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Iceland''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Get around Iceland:''A great way to get around Iceland is with a Campervan. If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''The local currency is the Icelandic\xa0króna (ISK). ATM’s are\xa0found throughout the country''If you’re doing a backpacking trip through Iceland make sure you have the''proper backpack.''Want to know what’s in the perfect''Iceland packing list?''Icelanders speak Icelandic, but every single person I came across spoke English.''Have I mentioned Iceland is expensive as hell? Well, it is! Save money by eating in and cooking for yourself. Check out our''Iceland grocery store guide''for all the tips!''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world; however, it’s important to use common sense when walking alone at night.''Tipping is not customary in Iceland''.''Iceland has strong Internet\xa0infrastructure''Accommodation in\xa0Iceland:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home try Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Iceland amazing to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go''reusable water bottle to save on plastic waste.''Read Next:''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''Happy Campers Review • The Best Camper Van in Iceland? (+Coupon!)''13 Tips to Survive a Camperven Trip in Iceland''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Cameron''With so many things to do in Namibia it may be overwhelming to plan a tour of the desert country. Namibia is a country unlike any other and sits at the top of our list of favorite places in the world.''I remember our trip to Namibia like it was yesterday. The deep red sand, silence of the desert air, wild animals, desert tribes, and encompassing landscape all grab ahold of you. Namibia is like another planet. We talk a lot about returning to many countries, but Namibia will be a reality.''On top of that, it’s one the easiest and safest countries in Africa to travel. Just like us, Namibia will entrance and leave you yearning to explore more. Which is surprising as the country is empty and the population is sparse. Don’t be deceived there are so many wonderful things to do in Namibia.''30 Unique and Fun Things to do in Namibia''Venture into Sossusvlei''Sossusvlei is the one place in''Namibia of which everyone has seen a photo.''The dunes in this section of the Namib Desert are considered the highest on earth, but it is hard to describe the sheer scale in writing.''Despite being Namibia’s number one tourist attraction, due to the sheer size of the dunes and desert here, one can still find complete solitude. The dunes tower over visitors, at 325 meters, with high winds sculpting a changing landscape. Seeing these dunes in person will take your breath away. If you can only do one thing in Namibia I would recommend heading to Sossusvlei.''The best time to visit Sossusvlei is at sunrise or sunset – go in the middle of the day and you’ll be drenched in sweat in minutes. At morning and sunset the tone of the desert is dramatic. It is wonderful time for a photo opportunity, be warned you have to act fast the sun is quick.''(Don’t forget a travel camera!)''Watch the sunrise on Dune 45''As the Namib-Naukluft gates open before sunrise, visitors make a mad dash for Dune 45. It’s not the highest dune in the Namib Desert, but it is the most popular because of its location right off the road and is often the most popular things to do in Namibia. Dune 45\xa0rises over 80 meters and is composed of 5-million-year-old sand blown in from the Orange River and the Kalahari Desert.''Dune 45 is the most popular spot to watch the sun come up over Sossusvlei. It gets popular as backpackers and independent travelers make their way here every morning for the “''gram''“. To make it into Sossusvlei before sunrise you must stay overnight in the''park’s campsite''. Campers are the only ones who have access to Sossusvlei before the official gate opens. You will need to be up well before the crack of dawn to be on the first to the dunes and climb it. We woke up at 4 am, broke camp, and drove like hell to see the sunrise.''An alternative way to watch the sunrise is to drive past the groups at Dune 45 and find your own dune to climb. That way, you get the beautiful red dunes and the sunrise all to yourself. Don’t worry – there are plenty of dunes to go around!''Walk across Deadvlei''Vlei is the Afrikaans word for “marsh” and that’s exactly what Deadvlei is – a dead marsh. Trees in this white clay pan are long dead after drought and climate change cut them off from water long ago. Nevertheless, they are still beautiful.''The pan is surrounded by some of the tallest and most impressive dunes in the world, making this a photogenic spot. The road to Deadvlei is a deep sand road, and a 4×4 vehicle is required. If you arrive without a 4×4, the road ends in a parking lot where guides will drive you in for a small fee. It’s best to arrive at Deadvlei before 10 am if possible, as the area gets unbearably hot late in the day. Deadvlei and Sossusvlei are nearby to eachother. My advice would be to head to Deadvlei right after watching the sunrise over Sossusvlei, before the sun gets scorching hot.''Drink at the Down Corruption Bar''During the Apartheid era, laws in Namibia prohibited native Africans from entering bars or liquor stores. So, “shebeens” or illicit pubs, sprang up in many townships to serve the disenfranchised. Shebeens became an important part of not just Namibia, but many African communities. They were well known for lively parties, live music, as well as a gathering place for political organizing. This tradition inspires the name, decor, and ambiance of this popular and very worthwhile bar outside of''Etosha National Park.''Having a drink in this bar is one of the best unknown things to do in Namibia. This bar is located inside''Gondwana’s Etosha Safari Camp,''an affordable place to stay while visiting Etosha. You don’t have to be a guest to enjoy the bar. It’s also a restaurant and museum and serves up cold drinks, good food, live music, plenty of historical memorabilia for all.''Walk through the Quiver Tree Forest''14 km north-east of the town of Keetmanshoop is the Quiver Tree Forest. The unique quiver tree can be found throughout Namibia, but the Quiver Tree Forest boasts 300 of these iconic Namibian trees in a very small area making it the perfect and guaranteed spot to see the trees.''Be sure to watch out for the quivers as they have poison-tipped arrows. Although the poison part makes us quiver at the thought, the trees are considered good luck for those who worship and nurture them.''Check out Kaokoland''The few visitors that make it to this region of Namibia are rewarded by proximity to desert elephants, giraffe, lions, and the''Himba people.''Kaokoland is one of the last wilderness areas in Southern Africa, but visiting here doesn’t come easy. You’ll need a four-wheel drive vehicle and have to be self-sufficient on your journey north.\xa0Roads here are a limited patchwork of dry riverbeds and rough paths that are more often trails or dry riverbeds.''Kaokoland is also where the Himba people live. Yes, the real Himba, not the ones available to tourists for photos at the popular hotspots. The Himba are considered to be one of the last tribes of Africa living as they have for centuries with little use of modern technology. The Himba paint their skin in a distinct ochre to protect themselves from the harsh Namibian sun and are frequently the subject of photographers who come from all over the world to capture their images.''Visit Damaraland''If you’re an avid Planet Earth watcher you may have heard of Damaraland. Damaraland is one of the most picturesque areas of Namibia and\xa0 where you can find all the great''animals of Africa''.''In Damaraland, granite formations mix with ancient riverbeds, grasslands, and mountains and the beauty is so great you may want to pinch yourself to make sure you’re not dreaming.''Damaraland is similar to Kaokoland, and togehter they form an area known as the Kaokoveld. The chief difference between the two areas is the ease and accessibility. In Damaraland, there are a number of roads, campsites, and lodges that make travel much easier.''Watch life go by on the Kavango River''The Kavango River flows from Angola through Namibia and forms the Okavango Delta in''Botswana''. The rich river is a vital source of water for all three countries and the wildlife that call it home. The river marks the beginning of the Caprivi strip in Namibia, making a swift departure from the rest of the arid country.''Here you can view a wide range of birds, hippos, and crocodiles, all while villagers paddle downstream in mokoros and carefully bathe along the banks. Days can be spent relaxing along the river and watching, or you can choose to join the flow: Boat cruises are super-popular in the region and best enjoyed at sunset.''To linger longer, reserve a luxury chalet or floating bungalow at the Hakusembe River Lodge, located outside of the Namibian outpost of Rundu and across the river from Angola.''Day Trip to the Luderitz Peninsula''Make a day trip of this peninsula located outside of the town of Luderitz. Here you will be treated to the company of a plethora of colorful local wildlife including brown hyena, oryx, and flamingos.''Diaz Point features a lighthouse and cafe along with a replica cross that was erected by the Portuguese explorer Bartolomeu Dias in 1488, after making it to the Cape of Good Hope. The largest penguin colony in Namibia is nearby on Halifax Island, and is visible from here if you have''some binos.''The marine life in the surrounding waters around Luderitz Peninsula includes whales and dolphins and travelers have a good chance of spotting them from the beach, or you can join a wildlife cruise.''Safari in Bwabwata National Park''Unlike most of Namibia, The Bwabwata National Park, which is located in the Caprivi Strip, is fertile and green thanks to the rainfall and the Cunbango River, a river that forms the famed Okavango Delta''in Botswana.''Bwabwata is known as the “people’s park” because it is home both to wildlife and several villages. Thanks to a progressive restock and relocation program of rare species such as the red lechwe and sitatunga, the park’s non-human population has increased in recent years. This focus on becoming an ecotourism destination has benefitted the humans as well by increasing business and creating new jobs for the local population.''The park is a route for migrating elephants traveling from Southern Angola to''Chobe National Park''in Botswana. Known collectively as the KAZA region, five countries collaborate to protect the majestic pachyderms’ seasonal path: Namibia, Botswana, Angola, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.''Stay at the Gondwana Canyon Village''The''Gondwana Canyon Village''features hiking in a 127,000 hectare reserve, an area which had once been the province of local farmers until the Gondwana Collection purchased the land.''Visitors can enjoy wandering through the interesting geology and getting as up-close-ish as they will allow with animals such as oryx, zebra, and jackals. The local lodge here was set up in the form of a small village oasis in the desert is accessible from the main road. We stayed here and enjoyed venturing around the desert before heading back to a comfortable lodge.''For those seeking to relax and cool off, the lodge features one of the only pools in''Southern Namibia''—the perfect place to unwind amidst beautiful desert scenery.''Make a stop at Solitaire''Located in the middle of the desert is the small settlement of Solitaire. Almost every traveler in Namibia makes a stop at this watering hole at the crossroads of C14 and C24, two major routes connecting Walvis Bay and the Sossusvlei section of the Namib-Naukluft National Park.''Solitaire has the only gas station for miles; plus a repair shop, post office, bakery, and small general store. The town is decorated with the decaying ruins of old cars from various decades, which many travelers take as a chance to get a picture perfect “Namibia” photo.''See the flamingos at Walvis Bay''Walvis Bay often gets overshadowed by the nearby city of Swakopmund. But the 30 minute drive from Swakopmund is worthwhile. Walvis Bay is the country’s chief port town. The waters here are rich in plankton, drawing in many southern right whales each year.''While many birds and sea animals make the area their home, Walvis Bay is known for hosting a population of approximately 35,000 flamingos. You can’t miss them as you are driving along the coast, and I would recommend pulling over to observe them for awhile. If you keep driving you’ll hit the tip of Pelican Point, a natural sand spit that stretches out into the ocean. Pelican Point gives visitors another chance to see more marine life. If you can’t find suitable accommodation in Swakopmund try Walvis Bay!''Live in Luxury at Chobe Water Villas''On the Namibian side of the Chobe River are the brand new luxurious''Chobe Water Villas''. These villas are located in the Kasika Conservancy at the eastern tip of the Zambezi Region and are set on stilts above the flowing Chobe River. All of the balconies here look out onto the famous Chobe National Park and Sedudu Island in Botswana.''The food here is exceptional and the hospitality on point. For activities, guests can leave Namibia to head into Botswana’s Chobe National Park across the water. One of our favorite things to do was take a sunset cruise with the staff and get up close to elephants, crocodiles, buffalo, and hippos from the boat.''Wake up at Wolwedans''If images of towering red sand dunes, ancient rock formations, desert animals, sandstorms, and mysterious “fairy circles” are in your Namibian dreams, then the NamibRand Nature Reserve is where your dreams will become reality. This area is a 200,000-hectare non-profit private nature reserve in southwest Namibia. The focus of the reserve of which is the preservation and restoration of the Namibian land.''Wolwedans is one of the few lodges in this desert and is breathtaking. Waking up in a canvas tent while the sun rises over the desert is the best way to experience the beauty of the area and brings back great memories of Africa.''Wolwedans''has been featured in countless travel publications and offers some of the best accommodations in all of Namibia, and all of''Africa for that matter.''It is the epitome of a classic African safari lodge. Focusing on sustainability and conservation, as well as high-end travel accommodations, the Wolwedans’ four main camps treat guests like royalty. Be prepared for lots of safaris, gin & tonics, wildlife, delicious meals, luxurious tents, and fiery sunsets. It’s by no means a cheap place to stay, but the experience is out of this world.''Watch the sunset over the Kalahari''Watching the sunset over the Kalahari Desert is a sensation to behold. 1.2 million square-kilometers of deep-red-toned sand, stretches across all of Southern Africa. Despite harsh conditions, the Kalahari plays host to a plethora of animals that have adapted to the environment. Lions, gemsboks, meerkats, zebras, and cheetahs can all be found in the Kalahari.''Stand in awe at the Fish River Canyon''Fish River Canyon is the second largest canyon on earth and is magnificent to say the least. Despite its impressive size, few tourists make it to Southern Namibia to marvel at it. The canyon’s origin is the separation of the Gondwana supercontinent, an event that shaped much of the landscapes of Southern Africa today.''Most travelers take a relaxing approach and head to the canyon rim in the evening with some cold Windhoek Lagers to watch the sunset. Adventurous travelers can descend down the 550 meters to the canyon floor for an active adventure. This hiking option is only available a few months out of the year due to seasonal extreme heat and flash flooding. Should you choose to accept the challenge, and visit at the right time of year, the hike takes around five days and covers 88 kilometers of the canyon floor.''Learn about Kavango people at the Mbunza Living Museum''Located outside of Rundu and the neighboring Hakusembe lodge along the Okavango River lies the''Mbunza Living Museum''. Set up by the Living Culture Foundation, a Namibian nonprofit, the museum is both a school for traditional culture and a community-based business aimed at preserving the culture of the Kavango people, while providing an additional source of income for rural villagers.''You can spend a few hours or a whole day learning about the different aspects of the local culture. I promise you will not only be entertained, but educated about rural Namibian life. There are many living museums around the country so be sure to see if there are any nearby to you!''See the Desert Horses at Aus''Set in a desert landscape 125 kilometers outside of Luderitz lies the tiny mountain town, Aus. This stop isn’t well known and won’t show up on many road trip itineraries, but it should.''There isn’t much in Aus besides two campsites, a lodge, petrol station, restaurant, and a hotel. Located along one of the few major roads in Namibia, the B4. The B4 is largely flat, but near Aus the mountains rise up out of the desert. Catching sunrise or sunset here won’t be a disappointment.''In the neighboring area of Garub—itself nothing more than a wheel and water tower in the desert—visitors can find the feral horses of the desert. They are often thought to be the only feral horses in Africa.''No one is quite certain where these 150 wild desert horses originated. These special horses have adapted to the harsh desert environment and are said to able to go five days with little to no water. When we were there the horses were looking quite skinny, and were told by the Gondwana staff that human intervention had to happen during severe droughts in order to save the species. Now the Gondwana collection provides enough water and hay for the horses to survive.''Drive the Skeleton Coast''Once referred to as the “Gate of Hell”\xa0this stretch of coastline in Namibia is one of the least hospitable places on earth. Along the drive you won’t find much besides the find remains of shipwrecks littered along the coast. The Skeleton Coast — once the moniker of the entire coast of Namibia — now describes the stretch north of the coastal town of Swakopmund.''There is no place quite on earth like the Skeleton Coast. While the sand dunes and vast ocean are heart stunning the weather here is ferocious as the heat from the desert whips up massive winds from the cool and wild Atlantic Ocean.''As you pass the last of crumbling fishing towns and reach the Skeleton Coast Gate complete with skull and crossbones, a sense of foreboding is inevitable. From the gate, drivers are on their own. There are no services available so it’s important that you are self-sufficient if you travel here. That means a 4×4 vehicle, enough gasoline for your trip, food, water, and god forbid know how to change a tire.''Have an affordable safari in Etosha National Park''Etosha National Park''is arguably one of the best national parks in Africa. However, many international travelers don’t venture or think of Namibia when it comes to safari, but they should. Etosha is filled with wildlife in the massive Etosha salt pan that can even be seen from space.''We spent two days on safari here and saw rhinos, lions, hyenas, giraffes, jackals, and so much more.\xa0With scarce water throughout, the local animals are forced to congregate around a limited number of watering holes meaning you can sit by one of the many watering holes and watch the wildlife come in from kilometers away. It’s one of the''easiest parks in Africa to self-drive''as the roads aren’t in terrible shape and signage is good. The best part about Etosha though? The price! At 80 NAD, Etosha National Park is the cheapest place in Africa for a safari. Seriously, we’ve been on safari in most of''Africa’s best parks''and that price can’t be beat.''Breath in the air at the Cape Cross Seal Reserve''Namibia’s largest seal colony can be seen (and smelled) at Cape Cross Seal Reserve. Although you may need nose plugs, seeing 100,000 floundering and wailing beast is amazing.\xa0These fat sea mammals enjoy full advantage of the nutrient-rich Atlantic Ocean here, with large concentrations of fish concentrated along the shoreline due to the famous Benguela Current.''This area is one of the few “stops” along the Skeleton Coast drive mentioned above, but it’s still close enough to Swakopmund for a day trip. Don’t forget to bring a camera and snap some photos of the seals, but be careful – they bite!''Check out the quirky town of Luderitz''Luderitz may be one of the strangest cities/towns we have ever set foot in. Originally built by German settlers, Luderitz is nestled between the turbulent Atlantic Ocean and the massive sand dunes of the Namib desert.''German architecture, beer houses, and marine life dominate the town. Piles of sand blow through the streets and fill the gutters. The vibe is wonderfully strange, like something out of the twilight zone, stuck in time and almost forgotten and any visit here may make you feel as if you’re in the twilight zone. Nevertheless, it is a real and working town in Namibia and well worth a few days exploration! Plus it’s the gateway to the unmissable Kolmanskop!''Photograph the ghost town of Kolmanskop''In the early 1900s, a German railway worker found a diamond lying on the ground in the desert and the rest is history. The town of Kolmanskop was quickly set up, grew in size, and the diamond mining in Namibia boomed.''Kolmanskop, despite being located in the middle of the Namib desert exploited the diamond field at the turn of the century. The town was completely abandoned in the late 1950;s and now a ghost town sits in the sand dunes of the Namib Desert. In the 1980’s DeBeer turned the area into a museum and now it is one of the most photographed spots in Namibia.''Daily tours provide information for visitors that wanting to learn about the area—and take stunning photographs of the decaying, abandoned buildings in the sand. Seriously, it’s hard to get a bad photo at Kolmanskop!''Same-day permits are required to enter Kolmanskop and can be purchased at the gate for 75 NAD, which includes an hour-long tour that starts at 9:30 am. Plan to stay longer and wait out the crowds to get the best photos.''Enjoy the vibes in Swakopmund''Swakopmund is easily the hippest city in Namibia and the country’s tourism epicenter. Swakopmund is a cool, beachside retreat, providing relief from the scorching hot desert, and thus has long served the weary traveler. Since Namibia was once a German colony, you can find beer halls, plenty of bratwursts, and colorful wooden homes here. You can also acquire almost anything you need to tackle the surrounding desert. The desert is never forgotten, though as sand dunes surround the city and roll into the wild Atlantic Ocean.''Swakopmund is the ultimate destination for adventure in Namibia. Entertain yourself with sandboarding, four-wheeling, paragliding, or skydiving — all on or over the Namib desert.''Spend a night in Spitzkoppe''Aside from the stunning dunes of the Namib Desert, Spitzkoppe may be the most photographed landmark in Namibia. An imposing granite rock formation that reaches a height of 1,728m, the shape of its summit has earned it the nickname, “The Matterhorn of Africa.”''The unique geology and beautiful views have attracted humankind throughout history, and so, a large number of bushmen paintings can be found on the granite mountain.''Spitskoppe is a fantastic destination for hiking, climbing, and photography. Visitors may make it a day trip from nearby Swakopmund, or stay even closer to the mountain at a small community-run desert campsite.''Try your hand at Sandboarding''Have you ever''tried snowboarding?''Now think about switching out that fresh powdery snow for some harsh desert sand and riding it. That is sandboarding in a nutshell. A few kilometers outside of Swakopmund lies the “perfect” dune for sandboarding. With six different faces and a towering height of 100 meters visitors can have an adrenaline filled day shredding the sand.''See Epupa Falls''Perched on the border of Angola and Namibia, in the region of Kaokoland, these magnificent waterfalls are a series of cascades that drop a total of 60 meters over 1.5 kilometers. At their most impressive point, the falls span across 500 meters before dropping and creating a beautiful mist.''The whole area up to and around the falls is unspoiled wilderness with baobabs, wild fig trees, and makalani palms lining the river and road. The falls are easy to reach in all seasons. A high clearance vehicle is recommended but not required; unless you’re traveling in the wet season, in which case it’s advisable to come in a 4×4. You will be best off making the journey equipped for camping with your own food, as there are four small camps/lodges that are located in proximity to the falls.''Have a braai!''Like South Africa'', the braai culture is strong in Namibia.\xa0Braai is Afrikaans for “grilled meat” and that’s what a braai is all about. A bunch of grilled meat. “Having a braai,” means someone is having a social gathering that is very\xa0similar to a BBQ. We’ve become quite custom to the typical Southern African braai now. Braai can consist of any meat but the two most common items are beef and a spiced sausage called boerewors. This is typically served with “pap” Afrikaans for maize porridge and a relish which is green vegetables cooked down. In general, Namibia is a very meaty country, and vegetarians may find it hard to find the food they want in this desert country – but of course it can be done!''Go on a desert bush walk''We love going on bush walks around Africa as it allows us to explore the African beauty up close. It’s not the time to see big game (although it’s possible), but to explore the intricacy of the desert eco system. You can learn about plants and insects of desert such as the sand snake or''toktokkie''. It’s also when you can see snakes, reptiles, droppings, and analyze footprints without the nuisance of a loud engine. You’ll want some''good safari boots''and a''safari hat''for this activity.''Quick tips to travel in Namibia''Capital: Windhoek''Currency: The Namibian Dollar, equivalent to the South African Rand''We found the land borders\xa0hassle free for self-drivers.''Self-Driving is the most popular way of getting around Namibia. Distances are great and petrol stations are scarce so buy a map and plan.''We were\xa0able to get around with''credit card''for a majority of our time in Namibia.''Most roads around the country are in very good condition, however, expect corrugation and some bumpy rides.''Visitors will be able to get by fine with English in Namibia. The majority of Namibians are some exceptionally friendly people.''We experienced no bribes, hassles, or police corruption in the country during our month in the country.''We felt very safe traveling in Namibia, but did not go to Windhoek as we felt no need to see another big city.''Visitors will be able to get about anything they need in Swakopmund and Windhoek. Don’t expect common amenities in many of the other towns.''MTC and TN Mobile are the two main cell phone providers in the country. We received a promotion for 1.3 GB of data for $N40 for one week with TN Mobile Jiva Surfer. Cell phone service was only available in towns and cities.''We felt that Namibia was very “western” feeling and felt very much like South Africa. It wasn’t until we got into Damaraland and then the Caprivi region that we felt we were truly back in “Africa.”''It is not recommended to drive at night in Namibia. Especially in the north where there are cattle, goats, and donkey grazing on the roads.''Read Next:''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''15 Namibia Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''The Ideal Northern Namibia Road Trip Route''The Perfect Southern Namibia Self Drive Itinerary''The Ultimate African Safari Guide''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''was last modified:''April 15th, 2018''by''Natasha''Travel quotes can be some of the most powerful and inspiring ways to encourage someone to get out there in the world, take chances, and live a more meaningful life.''I became intrigued with travel quotes as soon as I knew I wanted to travel. For years I’ve researched and collected my favorite and most thought-provoking quotes, mixed in with a few of my favorite books or movies. I thought it was time to share with you all my favorite quotes for travel.''Hopefully, they push you to get out there and live your dreams like they did for me.''110 Amazing Travel Quotes''1.''“The real voyage of''discovery''consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes.”''–\xa0Marcel Proust''2. “''A''good traveler''has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving.”''– Lao Tzu''3. “''Paris is''always''a good idea.”''–\xa0Audrey Hepburn''4. “''We are all travelers in the''wilderness''of this world, and the best we can find in our travels is an honest friend.” –''Robert Louis Stevenson''5.''I want''adventure''in the great wide somewhere.” –''Belle, Beauty and the Beast''6.''“The world is a book, and those who do not''travel r''ead only one page.”''– Saint Augustine''7. “''I love waking up in the morning not knowing what’s going to happen or''who I’m going to meet'', where I’m going to end up.”''– Jack Dawson, Titanic''8. “''Life is short and the older you get, the more you feel it. Indeed, the shorter it is. People lose their capacity to walk, run, travel, think, and experience life. I realize how''important''it is to use the time I have.” –''Viggo Mortensen''9. “''To''live''would be an awfully''big adventure''.”''– Peter Pan''10. “''Life movies''pretty fast,''if you don’t stop and look around every once in awhile you could miss it.” –''Ferris Bueller, Ferris Bueller’s Day Off''11. “''The world is not in your books and maps,''it’s out there.” –''Gandalf, The Hobbit''12. “To see the world'', things dangerous to come to, to see behind walls, draw closer, to find each other, and to feel. That is the purpose of life.”''-Walter, The Secret Life of Walter Mitty''13. “''Life is about''courage''and going into the unknown.” –''Cheryl, The Secret Life of Walter Mitty''14.''“If I’d learnt one thing from traveling, it was that the way to get things done was to''go ahead and do them''. Don’t talk about going to Borneo. Book a ticket, get a visa, pack a bag, and it just happens.” ―''Alex Garland,''The Beach''15.''“Tourists went on holidays while''travelers''did something else. They traveled.” ―''Alex Garland,''The Beach''16.''“How''wild''it was, to let it be.” –''Cheryl Strayed, Wild''17.''“Traveling tends to''magnify''all human emotions.''” —''Peter Hoeg''18. “''It had to do with how it felt to be in the wild. With what it was like to''walk for miles''with no reason other than to witness the accumulation of trees and meadows, mountains and deserts, streams and rocks, rivers and grasses, sunrises and sunsets. The experience was powerful and fundamental. It seemed to me that it had always felt like this to be a human in the wild, and as long as the wild existed it would always feel this way.”\xa0–''Cheryl Strayed, Wild''19. “''Freedom, the fatuous jingle of our''civilization''. But only those of us deprived of it have an inkling of what it really is.” –''David Mitchell, Cloud Atlas''20. “''Never lose your''childish innocence''. It is the most important thing.” –''Federico Fellini''21. “''To''travel''is worth any cost or sacrifice.” ―''Elizabeth Gilbert,''Eat, Pray, Love''22. “''If you walk the footsteps of a stranger, you’ll learn things you never knew you never knew.” –''Pocahontas''23. “''Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn’t do than by the ones you did. So throw off the bowlines, sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sail.''Explore. Dream. Discover.”''-Mark Twain''24. “''When you have caught the''rhythm of Africa'', you find out that it is the same in all her music.” –''Karen Blixen''25. “''One’s''destination''is never a place, but always a new way of seeing things.” –''Henry Miller''26. “''I dislike feeling at home when I’m''abroad.” –''George Bernard Shaw''27. “''Don’t listen to what they say –''Go see.”''– Unknown''28. “''Like all great travelers, I have''seen more than I remember,''and remember more than I have seen.”''–Benjamin Disraeli''29. “''Don’t tell me how''educated''you are, tell me how much you traveled''.” – Anonymous''30. “''Bizarre travel plans are dancing''lessons from God.”''–\xa0Kurt Vonnegut''31.''“Take only memories,''leave only footprints.''”''–Chief Seattle''32.''“Life begins at the end of your''comfort zone''.”''–Neale Donald Walsch''33.''“Travel is the only thing you buy that makes you''richer.”''– Unknown''34. “''Do you want to take a''leap of faith'', or become an old man, filled with regret, waiting to die alone.” –''Sado, Inception''35.''“Venture outside your comfort zone. The rewards are worth it.” –''Rapunzel, Tangled''“When in Rome,''live as Romans do; When elsewhere live as they do elsewhere”''– Saint Ambrose''37.''The best ways to make your dreams come true is to''wake up''”''– Paul Valery''38.''“Away is a place where it’s not about the money you spend. It’s about the''moments you share.”''–\xa0Anonymous''39.''“I felt my lungs inflate with the onrush of scenery.''Air, mountains, tree, people''. I thought: this is what it is to be happy.” –''Sylvia Plath''40.''“Once a year go''somewhere''you have never been before.” –''Dalai Lama''41.''“Don’t let your dreams be dreams.” –''Jack Johnson''42. “''If you think adventure is''dangerous,''try routine, it is lethal.”''-Paulo Coelho''43.''“The only man I''envy''is the man who''has not yet been to Africa,''for he has so much to look forward to.” –''Richard Mullin''44.''“Our happiest moments as tourists always seem to come when we''stumble upon''one thing while in pursuit of something else.” —''Lawrence Block''45.''“If you focus on what you left behind, you will never be able to see what lies ahead.” –''– Gusteau, Ratatouille''46. “''The''biggest risk''in life is not taking any risks.” –''Barfi''47. “''Jobs fill your pocket.''Adventures''fill your soul.” –''Unknown''48.''“I chose to tell myself a different story from the one women are told. \xa0I decided I was safe. \xa0I was strong.''I was brave.''”\xa0–''Cheryl Strayed, Wild''49. “''Certainly, travel is more than the''seeing of sights''; it is a change that goes on, deep and permanent, in the ideas of living.”''–\xa0Miriam Beard''50.''“We travel,''some of us forever,''to seek other places, other lives, other souls.”''–\xa0Anais Nin''51.''“Good girls go to heaven,''bad girls''go everywhere.”''–\xa0Mae West''52.''“Wilderness is not a''luxury''but necessity of the human spirit.”''–Edward Abbey''53.''“Look deep into''nature'', and then you will understand everything better.” –''Albert Einstein''54.''“Like music and art, love of nature is a''common language''that can transcend political or social boundaries.”''–Jimmy Carter''55. “''May your trails be''crooked'', winding, lonesome, dangerous, leading to the most amazing view. May your mountains rise into and above the clouds.”''–\xa0Edward Abbey''56. “''The''mountains''are calling and I must go.”''–\xa0John Muir''57.''“Don’t just fly,''soar.''”''– Dumbo''58. “''You have to go through those''mountains and valleys''– because that’s what life is: soul growth”.''– Wayne Newton''59. “''How glorious a greeting the''sun''gives the mountains!”''–\xa0John Muir''60.''“You don’t have to travel the world to understand that the''sky is blue around the world''.”''― Johann Wolfgang von Goethe''61. “''At the end of the day, it’s not about what you have or even what you’ve accomplished. It’s about what you’ve done with those''accomplishments.''It’s about who you’ve lifted up, who you’ve made better. It’s about what you’ve given back.” –''Denzel Washington''62. “Africa''changes you forever, like nowhere on earth. Once you have been there, you will never be the same. But how do you begin to describe its magic to someone who has never felt it?” –\xa0Brian Jackman''63. “''When you leave''Africa'', as the plane lifts, you feel that more than leaving a continent you’re leaving a state of mind. Whatever awaits you at the other end of your journey will be of a different order of existence.”''–''Francesca Marciano''64. “Happiness''is the richest thing we will ever own.”''– Donald Duck''65''. “The worst thing about being a tourist is having other tourists recognize you as a''tourist.”''-Russell Baker''66. “''When preparing to travel, lay out all your clothes and all your money. Then take''half the clothes and twice the money.” –''Susan Heller.''67. “Adventure,''yeah. I guess that’s what you call it when everybody comes back alive.”''–\xa0Mercedes Lackey''68.''“I have wandered all my life, and I have also traveled; the difference between the two being this, that we wander for distraction, but we travel for fulfillment.”''-Hilaire Belloc''69.''“All our dreams can come true, if we have the courage to pursue them.”''– Walt Disney''70. “''Don’t worry about the''world ending today'', it’s already tomorrow in Australia.”''–\xa0Charles M. Schulz''71. “''I\xa0\xa0have found out that there ain’t no\xa0surer way to find out whether you like people or hate them than to''travel with them.”''–''Mark Twain''72. “''Dreams may be''sexy'', but planning is the condom that makes it all possible.”''-Eytan Levy''73.''“The most important part of''luggage''is a cheerful heart.”''―Hermann Löns''74.''“Stop worrying about the''potholes''in the road and enjoy the journey.”''―''Babs Hoffman''75. “''You can’t''control the past'', but you can control where you go next.” ―''Kirsten Hubbard''76.''“Travel is more than the''seeing of sights''; it is a change that goes on, deep and permanent, in the ideas of living.” ― Miriam Beard''77.''“Oh yes,''the past can hurt''. But from the way I see it, you can either run from it, or learn from it.” –''Rafiki,''The Lion King''78. “''Don’t let danger control you. Embrace a challenge—you never know where it will take you. Just don’t go around visiting''elephant graveyards'', okay?” –''Mufasa, The Lion King''79. “''To my mind, the''greatest reward''and luxury of travel is to be able to experience everyday things as if for the first time, to be in a position in which almost nothing is so familiar it is taken for granted.”''– Bill Bryson''80. “''Adventure is''worthwhile''in itself.” –''Amelia Earhart''81. “''Nobody can discover the world for somebody else. Only when we''discover''it for ourselves does it become common ground and a common bond and we cease to be alone.”''― Wendell Berry''82. “''It is not''down in any map''; true places never are.”''– Herman Melville''83. “''A traveler without''observation''is a bird without wings.”''– Moslih Eddin Saadi''84.''“Never get so busy making a living that you forget to make a life.”''– Unknown''85.''“The best''dreams happen''when you’re awake.”''– Unknown''86. “''Oh, the''places you’ll go.”''-Dr. Suess''87. “''If you are not willing to risk the''unusual,''you will have to settle for the ordinary.”''-Jim Rohn''88.''“I mused for a few moments on the question of which was worse, to lead a life so boring that you are easily enchanted, or a life so full of stimulus that you are easily bored.”\xa0 –''Bill Bryson, The Lost Continent''89.''“That’s the glory of''foreign travel,''as far as I am concerned. I don’t want to know what people are talking about. I can’t think of anything that excites a greater sense of childlike wonder than to be in a country where you are ignorant of almost everything. Suddenly you are five years old again. You can’t read anything, you have only the most rudimentary sense of how things work, you can’t even reliably cross a street without endangering your life. Your whole existence becomes a series of interesting guesses.”\xa0\xa0 –''Bill Bryson,''Neither Here Nor There''90.''“I love to watch''cities wake up'', and Paris wakes up more abruptly, more startlingly than any place I know.”\xa0–''Bill Bryson,''Neither Here Nor There''91.''“There is something about the''momentum of travel''that makes you want to just keep moving, to never stop.” –''ill Bryson,''Neither Here Nor There''92.''“Because in the end, you won’t remember the time you spent working in the office or mowing your lawn''. Climb that goddamn mountain''.”''―\xa0Jack Kerouac''93. “''Actually, the best gift you could have given her was a''lifetime of adventures.”''–''Lewis Carroll, Alice in Wonderland''94.''“Fill your life with''experiences'', not things. Have stories to tell, not stuff to show.”''–\xa0Unknown''95. “''To travel is to discover that everyone is wrong about other countries.”''–\xa0Aldous Huxley''96''.\xa0“If we were meant to stay in one place, we’d have''roots instead of feet''”''–\xa0Rachel Wolchin''97. “''When you travel, remember that a foreign country is not designed to make you comfortable. It is designed to make its own people''comfortable.''”''― Clifton Fadiman''98. “''Travel isn’t always pretty. It isn’t always comfortable. Sometimes it hurts, it even breaks your heart. But that’s okay. The journey changes you; it should change you. It leaves marks on your memory, on your consciousness, on your heart, and on your body. You take something with you. Hopefully, you leave''something good behind''.”''–\xa0 Anthony Bourdain''99. “''Live your life by a''compass,''not a clock.”''– Stephen Covey''100.''“We travel,''some of us forever,''to seek other states, other lives, other souls.”''— Anais Nin''101. “''As you travel solo, being totally r''esponsible for yourself'', it’s inevitable that you will discover just how capable you are.”''– Unknown''102.''“''I was never going to go''if I waited for someone to come with me.”''– Unknown''103.''“Once the travel bug bites, there is no known antidote, and I know that I shall be''happily infected''for the rest of my life.”''– Michael Palin''104.''“''Adventure is worthwhile.''”''– Aristotle''105.''“Once in awhile it really hits people that they don’t have to''experience the world''in the way they have been told to.” –''Alan Keightley''106. “''The most beautiful in the world is, of course,''the world itself''.”''-Wallace Stevens''107.''”Travel''makes a wise man better''but a fool worse.”''–\xa0Thomas Fuller''108. “''You can shake the sand from your shoes, but it will never leave your soul.”''– Unknown''109. “''Mountains are only a problem when they are''bigger than you''. You should develop yourself so much that you become bigger than the mountains you face.”''-Idowu Koyenikan''110. “''Stop staring at mountains.''Climb them instead,''yes, it’s a harder process but it will lead you to a better view.” –''Unknown''What other travel quotes would you add to this list?''Read Next:''30 Romantic Travel Quotes for Couples''40 Road Trip Essentials You Need to Have in Your Car''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''50 Short Travel Quotes to Inspire You to TRAVEL''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''April 17, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''April 12, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''March 5, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Natasha''If you’re traveling to the Balkans you’re in a fantastic time. The Balkans are one of our''favorite regions we’ve been in Europe.''However, before you travel the Balkan region there are some tips\xa0you\xa0should know. When it comes to Balkan travel tips we should\xa0clarify what we mean by “Balkans”. Where exactly is the Balkan Region? And what exactly is it?''The easy\xa0answer\xa0would be the\xa0geographical definition of the Balkans, which is the region encompassing the Balkan mountains. This can include Greece, Romania,''Bulgaria'', Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Kosovo, Turkey, Croatia, and Albania. However, the Balkan Region is viewed much more as a cultural region. Therefore, we have dropped Greece and Turkey when identifying the region and added the former Yugoslav country of Slovenia.''15 Balkans Travel Tips''Travel to the Balkans, then have a drink''If you spend any amount of time in the Balkans it is just about impossible to not come across Rakia or Rakija at some point. This home-brewed spirit is a fruit brandy. Almost everyone in the Balkans has a friend or family member who brews the stuff, or they brew it themselves. Rakija is the standard in welcoming someone into your home, starting a night out, making new friends, or for some starting the day. You’ll come to find that Rakija, and alcohol for that matter, are widely consumed — as in they drink it''a lot.''Educate yourself on Tito!''You’re bound to come across this name more than a few times during your travel. You’ll find his name spray painted on walls, his busts sitting in town squares, and the name,\xa0Tito, from the lips of the locals.''Tito was the founder of Yugoslavia''and due to his Switzerland\xa0approach leading the Non-Aligned Movement\xa0during The Cold War many of the Balkan states prospered from deals with both the U.S.S.R. and U.S.A. Although, Yugoslavia crumbled and broke out into civil war in the 90’s for a number of reasons many still remember the days of Tito fondly.''Titos Bar in Sarajevo''Most of the countries are outside the Schengen''All non-Europeans will have the''Schengen Visa''to contend with while traveling''Europe.''We only have 90 days for every 180 to visit all of the European countries within the Schengen zone, until it’s time to get outta Europe. \xa0We know the pain here. However, asides from Slovenia all of the Balkans are currently outside of the Schengen. Meaning you can still hang out in Europe even though most of the EU wants nothing to do with you.''This is a big plus if you travel to the Balkans and for long term travelers. Simply spend 90 days, or more in the Balkans and…abracadabra, you’re good\xa0to go back into the Schengen again. Or you could just travel solely in the Balkans instead of wasting a bunch of money going to all the same places everyone else goes to, like Amsterdam\xa0or Vienna\xa0(both are terrific cities just to be clear).''Balkan travel at the speed of a…bus''Train travel in the Balkans is limited and slow. If you hope to get around you better learn to love buses. The buses are pretty easy to navigate; show up at\xa0the bus station, almost every town has one, and ask for where you’re looking to head. If it’s on the map there is likely a bus route that will get you there. \xa0We also found Balkan travel easy to\xa0hitchhike as a means of transportation, most people we came across were happy to pick up a stranger. Who needs a rental car to travel the Balkans?''Here are some great links for planning out Balkan bus travel:''Bus Croatia''Bus Ticket 4 Me''EuroLines''Polazak''Ljubljana Bus Station Site''KTEL Macedonia''They are Joe Camel’s BFF''If there is one facet to not appreciate about the Balkans it is their love for smoking. Call me Judgy-Mcjudgeface, but smoking just isn’t cool anymore. Just to give you an idea, measuring cigarette consumption per capita, the Balkans occupied six of the top ten spots in the world in 2009, and if you throw Greece back into the mix it’s seven. Serbia takes home the prize in some studies, Bosnia &\xa0Herzegovina in others, and Montenegro is saying don’t forget about us here! There have been movements from a number of Balkan countries to reduce consumption and laws have begun to be put into place despite pushback from many citizens and business owners.''What is Ćevapi & Börek?''After spending some time in the Balkans you will definitely find out! Ćevapi and Börek are the national dishes of the region. Börek is a flaky pastry filled with potatoes, meats, cheeses, and other varying ingredients – we usually had these for breakfast. Ćevapi or ćevapčići is minced meat, that looks and essentially is a skinless sausage. Cevapi is pretty\xa0much everywhere but wasn’t even our personal favorites.''Besides Ćevapi and Börek, each country specializes in their own thing such as kajmak in Serbia, seafood in Croatia, and shopska salad in Bulgaria. Our personal favorite is fresh kajmak, which we found in the''green markets of Belgrade.''There is a ton of great food and drink here at incredibly affordable prices, so don’t be afraid to try any and everything.''Are you in danger?''We can’t believe we even have to add this one to the list, but after a number of comments, messages, and concerned questions from friends we need to say, NO the Balkans are not dangerous. Honestly, we feel safer traveling these parts of Europe than many of the “typical” destinations (looking at you Paris, Rome, and London).''One of the main reasons we spent almost four months traveling the Balkans was because of Tasha’s solo adventures in the region a few years back. She returned to the states raving about Bosnia, Croatia, and Montenegro so we knew we just had to go again. Yes, there was a war two decades ago, but that doesn’t mean it’s dangerous now.''Be respectful''Speaking of the war it is still very recent and travelers should remain sensitive to the fact that many people in the region have had family or friends that have been directly affected by the Yugoslav wars in the 90’s. However, don’t be afraid to mention your plans to travel through neighboring countries while in Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, etc. Despite what the internet told us we found little ill-will between all the different nationalities…''besides that one time a crazy Serbian called me a Nazi.''Traveling the Balkans is cheap!''While some friends were paying over €50 for a dorm bed in the major cities such as Vienna, Copenhagen, Amsterdam, Venice, and Munich we got by in the Balkans for about €20-€30 for a nice private room. Typically staying in comfortable accommodation that was family run (one place was even seaside for\xa0€30)! Also, for people called digital nomads, the Balkans are a tremendous choice as prices are great, they have all the amenities\xa0you could need, and fast internet.''For example we were able to pick up a two-bedroom''Airbnb''in''Vracar, a hip neighborhood in Belgrade,''for only €500 total for the entire month. Groceries cost us\xa0€30 a week, a Costa latte was\xa0€2, and we may or may not have had a 64 piece sushi platter for\xa0€25.''This affordability goes for most of the Balkans. However, we did find Croatia and Slovenia to cost a bit more to travel through, particularly in the summer months.''The Balkans are breeding grounds for giants''There must be something in the Balkan water because it is where giants live. I’m an average male at 5′ 11″, but while traveling the Balkans I felt short. We’d be walking down the street and the couple ahead of us, both male and female would tower over me, don’t even ask 5′ Tasha how she felt.''Patience is a virtue when it comes to Balkan travel''People in the Balkans are in no rush. Things seem to move on their own timeline and you’ll often find that person who was supposed to be bringing you your cevapi are sitting against the register staring off into space. We never knew it could take someone an\xa0hour to drink a\xa0cappuccino\xa0until we sat in a''cafe in Zagreb''. Maybe we’re just a little too fast-paced''from living in New York'', but it did take some time getting used to Balkan time.''I like you, let’s be friends''We found most of the people in the Balkans seriously friendly. They may not always be chipper, but hospitable yes. \xa0We were invited into many homes, shown around, helped out and just about everything in between. Sometimes when we travel we have to put up a wall and become dubious of overly nice people (''Morocco still haunts us)''. In the Balkans, people are just nice to be nice, not because they expect something from you in return. It’s a common theme from the former\xa0Ottoman Empire, which includes Greece and Turkey.''Currency dilemma''The Balkan countries are small and pretty much any trip to the Balkans will involve at least one or two different countries. When it comes to Balkan travel almost every one of the\xa0countries has its own currency. Besides Slovenia, Montenegro, and Kosovo every single country in the operates with their own unique currency. Creating a serious headache for those who travel fast. It becomes very easy to lose track of what currency is worth. We''suggest using the XE Currency app''to make sure you don’t lose your marbles.''The Balkans are home to the “World’s Worst Car”''Or at least that’s what some refer to the “''Yugo''” as. If you’re looking for a way to travel the Balkan region in style this is the way, at least the quintessential one. We personally find the car endearing, it’s cheap and serves its purpose. Just because it’s a metal box with a tiny engine doesn’t mean it has to be looked down on. It’s really hard to judge, though, I mean Americans had the''Ford Pinto''! Every car has a purpose! Equal car rights, please.''Don’t forget a camera and a good memory''The region is nothing short of stunning. There is so much variety to just the geographical terrain in the Balkans it’s hard to even describe them in short detail. Not to mention all of the Balkan’s history involved in each individual country. We’ve spent more time in the Balkans than any other region of Europe and still feel\xa0that we’ve only just scratched the surface. Don’t forget to''pack a good travel camera for all the beauty.''Plan Your Travel to the Balkans''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'', or\xa0to feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''Adapter:''Remember that many countries in the Balkans use\xa0both the “''Type L ” adapter''and the''Europlug''. Many adapters are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged.''Have you traveled through the Balkans? Any other Balkan travel tips to add to this list?''Read Next:''Where to Go in Croatia to Have an Amazing Vacation''Balkans Travel Itinerary: The Best Eastern European Cities to Visit''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''The 10 Best Hiking Backpacks to Conquer Mountains in 2018''21 Europe Packing List Items You Don’t Want to Forget''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''April 12, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''was last modified:''April 17th, 2018''by''Cameron''Winter in Banff? We must be crazy, or we really really love to snowboard, as Lake Louise and Banff Sunshine are easily two of the best ski resorts in North America. Instead of heading to the beaches of the Caribbean or Southeast Asia we decided to spend our winter tackling mountains with snowboards strapped to our feet.''We urge everyone to not let the fear of a Canadian winter deter you from traveling to Banff. You’re sure to be blown away by the beauty if you sacrifice palm trees and beaches and head north. If you choose the right spot, activities, and ski resort you’ll be counting down the days until winter just like summer. Truth be told, even now as summer is coming we’re already planning our next winter season.''Kyle Maquire / Banff Sunshine''If you decide to make your way to Banff in the winter these are some of the best highlights. In this guide, we break down the best things to do in Banff in the winter, where to eat in Banff and a ski guide to SkiBig3.''Things to do in Banff (Winter Edition)''You Gotta SkiBig3!''Snowboarding at all of the''SkiBig3''resorts was our primary reason for heading to Banff in the winter. SkiBig3 is a collection of three mountain resorts all within Banff National Park. You have Lake Louise, Banff Sunshine, and Mt. Norquay which are all fantastic and unique ski resorts.''Banff Sunshine''Kyle Maquire / Banff Sunshine''I was standing in the middle of a massive chute watching Natasha’s snow rain down on me from the slope above. The run below me looked like a straight cliff and while standing I could touch the mountain, at least it felt that way. Banff Sunshine is a mountain that truly offers something to everyone from professionals right down to beginners. You can easily find yourself smack dab in freeride terrain that would be considered out-of-bounds in other resorts.''If you want to find a mountain with some seriously humbling terrain in-bounds then''Banff Sunshine''is the place to head. Jagged peaks loom high above alpine trees and the views are unparalleled. When you first arrive in the parking lot the mountain does not look like much as the base is simply a gondola station and one restaurant. In fact, to reach the true resort base guests must take a 15-minute\xa0gondola that delivers them into a sprawling resort that looks like it''belongs in the Alps'', not North America.''Kyle Maquire / Banff Sunshine''Kyle Maquire / Banff Sunshine''Banff Sunshine contains two expert only areas that require all riders and skiers to sign out with the ski patrol and carry an avalanche kit. Delirium Dive and Wild West areas feature massive cliff features, chutes, and some seriously steep terrain.''Don’t let the expert terrain detract you from visiting the resort as it aslo has a plethora of groomed beginner and intermediate runs. The resort has something for everyone and the base area makes for a perfect central point to meet after skiing the surrounding peaks.''Lift Ticket Cost:''Adult – $109\xa0• Youth – $85\xa0• Child – $42\xa0• Senior – $85 (''Book Tickets Here'')''Runs/Skiable Terrain:''145 runs''•''3'',300 acres''Favorite Runs:''World Cup Downhill, Bunkers, The Shoulder, Wildside, Rolling Thunder,\xa0Tin Can Alley''Lake Louise Ski Resort''There is arguably no ski resort in the world with a better view than''Lake Louise Ski Resort'', that photo above is what we’re talking about. In between runs screaming down groomers or tackling a bowl Banff National Park provides you some fresh air and stunning landscapes. We visited thirty resorts in one season and the views from Lake Louise were hands down some of the best in the world.''It also happens to be one of the largest ski resort in North America with 4,200 acres covering four mountain faces. The terrain varies between beautiful groomers, challenging steeps, and expert level chutes. The longest run here stretches for nearly five miles so start working out your leg muscles now.''Lift Ticket Cost:''Adult – $104 • Youth – $79 • Child – $39 • Senior – $79 (''Book Tickets Here'')''Runs/Skiable Terrain:''145''•''4,200 acres''Favorite Runs:''Brown Shirt, Juniper Jungle, Men’s Downhill, Saddleback, Sunset Terrace, and E Chute.''Mt. Norquay''Mt Norquay''is the most digestible of resorts here and the least imposing for beginners/intermediates. It’s only a 10 minute drive from the town of Banff, making it a great option to go get some runs in and still have time in town. The resort has been in operation since 1926 and offers a number of activities asides from snowboard and ski. It’s also the only mountain that offers night skiing in the area and relatively small in comparison to the other resorts of SkiBig3.''While Lake Louise and Banff Sunshine can draw a decent crowd (still few lines) Mt. Norquay is a quiet mountain. You’ll have a hard time finding crowds here and it’s the perfect place to learn how to ski with a good ski school and affordable lift ticket. They also offer snowshoe hikes, tubing, and child care. The biggest plus to Mt. Norquay for us is the proximity to the town of Banff, only a 10-minute drive.''Lift Ticket Cost:''Adult – $74 • Youth – $56 • Child – $29 • Senior – $56 (''Book Tickets Here'')''Runs/Skiable Terrain:''60\xa0• 72 acres''Favorite Runs:''Constellation,\xa0Norquay 90 Glades, and Lone Pine.''Photograph your way around Banff''There are four national parks and a countless number of scenic mountain peaks, alpine lakes, and glaciers. In one of the''most scenic places in Canada'', you’re definitely going to want to take a large share of photos. You can also partake in a photography tour where they show the best places and how to get the perfect shot.''There are a number of great spots to take photos in the winter. Vermillion Lakes, Bow Valley Parkway, and Lake Louise are great places to snag a great photo or you can drive all the way up to Jasper for a multitude of more places.''Johnston Canyon Ice Walk''Have you ever stood on a frozen waterfall before? Neither had we until the Johnston Canyon hike. Due to the elevation of the region and the sub-zero temperatures of winter the waterfalls of Johnston Canyon freeze in time. It’s a pretty surreal experience and completely accessible for all.''As a tip, we suggest picking up some ice cleats in town. Although the trail is well managed it can get icy and it’s better to slip everywhere on the trail – ours were very handy! Once you reach the end of the trail and the most impressive frozen fall you’ll probably find some ice climbers. If you’re feeling adventurous book an ice climbing tour yourself!''Snowshoe''Just because there is snow on the ground doesn’t mean you can’t leave the well-trodden path. You might not be able to walk through the snow on foot, but a quality of a pair of snowshoes allows you to float across the snow. They’re super easy to get the hang of and you’ll be moving along in no time. Two popular snowshoe hikes are to the Paint Pots or Marble Canyon, but you’re free to explore the wilderness on your own if you rent a pair.''Walk and ice skate on Lake Louise''You’ll be hard-pressed to find a more scenic ice rink than Lake Louise. Every year the lake freezes over and the Chateau Lake Louise marks out multiple ice rinks made for families, figure skating, and hockey. Nothing screams you’re in Canada than playing hockey on a frozen lake. There are a number of places around that offer ice skates for rent, including Chateau Lake Louise.''If you’re not much of a skater don’t worry – Lake Louise freezes completely over every winter providing you the opportunity to walk and explore the area.''Nordic Ski/Cross Country Ski''I personally don’t like cross-country skiing, but there are plenty who love to cross-country skiing. It’s a low impact sport that gets your heart racing and allows you to slide across the snow. There is one thing you can’t argue against is the pristine wilderness beauty nordic skiers will find themselves, especially in Banff.''Banff & Lake Louise Tourism / Noel Hendrickson''Soak in the hot springs''Don’t let the frigid Canadian temperatures detract you because there are plenty of ways to warm up around the Banff. Just outside of the Banff town lies the''Banff Upper Hot Springs''. These hot springs make for one of the best places to relax those stiff muscles after a ski day. Just be warned afternoons can draw a crowd so head there in the morning for a more quiet experience.''Banff & Lake Louise Tourism / Noel Hendrickson''Relax in nature''We have an addiction to the post excitement high we receive in the mountains. After flying down a mountain on our snowboard nothing beats the feeling of calming our nerves in nature. There are a countless number of ways you can relax whether it be by a hot tub, on a bench, by a fire, or watching the sunset over the frost-tipped mountains.''Just kick back with the one you love and let the calming effect of Banff National Park wash over you. Nothing else can compare.''Where To Eat in Banff''Banff Sushi''We love sushi and we love a good deal so Banff Sushi is a slam dunk for us. The novelty of sushi train was definitely appreciated and brought us back to Japan as we nabbed tantalizing bites of sushi off the Canadian train engine. If you like sushi this may be one of the best deals in Banff.''Whitebark Cafe''Hip coffee shop serving delicious coffee and freshly baked treats. It’s the perfect post ski pick me up if you’re not into the apres ski scene!''Park Distillery''Check out the only distillery in a national park in North America. It’s super cool inside with large tables perfect to finish off a winter day in Banff with friends or family.''Banff & Lake Louise Tourism / Noel Hendrickson''Nourish Bistro''This healthy cafe is the perfect lunch spot in town with reasonably priced lunch combos and coffee.''Bear Street Tavern''Winter activities often mean you’re burning plenty of calories so if you’re looking for a laid-back atmosphere and some tasty grub head to this tavern to replenish.''The Grizzly Paw Brewing Pub''Our favorite post ski ritual is to check out the local brewery, something you can only find in North America. To find some of the best brews around go to the neighboring town of Canmore.''Plan Your Trip to Banff:''Stay:''We stayed at''Elk+Avenue''hotel in Banff which had a great location right on the main street and across from a grocery store. Rooms here are comfortable and spacious.\xa0 For apartment rentals in Banff consider looking at Airbnb. You can read about''choosing a good Airbnb here''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay with Airbnb!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Please consider purchasing a''travel water bottle''before your trip! We hate to see one time use plastic bottles ending up in the ocean. We found the tap water in Canada fine to drink, but when we want extra assurance we use the''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''Travel Credit Card:''We take full advantage of credit cards. If you’re Canadian check out this new offer from Scotiabank. For example with their''credit card, you have no foreign transaction fees'', spending rewards, a signup bonus, and other sweet perks.''Read Next:''Ski Sun Peaks Resort • The Perfect Canadian Winter Destination''Five Ski Resorts in the Canadian Rockies You Haven’t Heard About''The Best Winter Packing List for Europe and Beyond''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''April 11, 2018''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''April 6, 2018''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''was last modified:''April 24th, 2018''by''Cameron''Travel duffel bags have become synonymous with adventure travelers. The super tough bags can range from a 45-liter weekend grab bag to a whopping 90 liter – we could fit a person in these things. (I don’t recommend that for saving on airfare!) I recently utilized a duffel bag on our snowboard tour around the world and loved the rugged convenience.''The best duffel bags for travel are durable and made for simple travel. They can stash a lot of gear with no space eaten up by organization dividers or sections. Plus with a durable exterior, you can stick boots, gloves, goggles, or hiking poles in them.''We’ve reviewed some of the best travel duffel bags on the market that will help make your travel and packing easier – here are our favorites.''Best Travel Duffel Bags''Patagonia Black Hole''Have we mentioned that we''love Patagonia before''? We’re avid fans of the companies products and it’s likely anyone who’s big into outdoor adventure sports is loves them too. The Patagonia Black Hole bag is one of the largest of the Patagonia brand and perfect for extensive travel.''The bag\xa0can pack down small when empty so it’s great to stick in your\xa0bag. It was also plenty easy to stuff and organize,\xa0thanks to the large U-shaped zipper and\xa0two mesh pockets on the top flap. It’s also super lightweight an important aspect we look for in our travel gear.''Check the prices here!''North Face Base Camp''The''North Face Base Camp''is likely the best duffel bag for travel. This bag has been a staple of the duffel market and for a long time left competitors attempting to keep up.''I love that the shoulder straps are plush and allow for the bag to be carried like a backpack. It’s made with a durable material that is both rugged and weather resistant. It’s everything I look for in a great duffel bag for travel. North Face also makes a version with wheels called the''North Face Rolling Thunder.''Check the prices here!''Helly Hansen Duffel 2''If you’re looking for the best value on this list of duffels bags for travel then the Helly Hansen is for you.\xa0 The''Helly Hansen Duffel 2''is easily my favorite bag on the market and the one I currently carry.''It’s an easy to pack bag and should be able to handle a few short trips. The Helly Hansen is waterproof and looks sharp. However, it’s slightly heavy and could definitely be constructed just a tad bit better. It’s not the toughest or best-constructed duffel bag, but you do get a lot of bag for not much money.''Check the prices here!''Eagle Creek Cargo Hauler''Eagle Creek''are experts at lightweight travel gear and that is exactly what you can expect with their Eagle Creek Cargo Hauler.''The bag has six handles so it’s easy to grab for the traveler on the go. It also has well-cushioned shoulder straps that make it easy to carry. If you need a tough bag give this a skip as it isn’t super durable, but for a weekend traveler\xa0not putting much wear and tear on a bag this may the perfect fit.\xa0It may not be the best at waterproof capabilities so adventurers may want to leave this one at home.''Check the prices here!''Best Wheeled Duffel Bags''High Siera AT6 – Carry On''This is a hybrid bag that blends duffel bag and backpack. It provides travelers plenty of options and is purpose-built to do it all. The bag features organization with multiple compartments and a divider panel that can be removed to create one large compartment.''Most importantly it has wheels and an extendable handle for easy transportation.''Check the prices here!''Eagle Creek No Matter What Duffel Bag''This is a collapsible bag that still has sturdy wheels and a handle to carry it all. What more could you ask for? It also holds a massive 120 liters of luggage. The bag hasweather-resistantt fabric that will not hold up the elements of an adventure traveler. However, the average city hopper will be enough to protect clothes from the occasional patch of rain.''Check the prices here!''Wheeled vs. Traditional Duffel Bag''It goes without saying wheels make it far easier to travel around airports, paved roads, and even surfaces. The advantage of a traditional duffel bag is that is lightweight and easy to carry. With strict airline weight allowances that weight means you pack less of your own stuff in a wheeled bag.''A more traditional bag is also much easier in difficult or exotic destinations. They’re clearly more suited for adventure travel as you can strap to just about anything whether that’s a rooftop, yak, snowmobile, or jammed in the small luggage hold of a Cessna. For the average traveler, a wheeled bag is a perfect fit, but those on an adventure should opt for a traditional duffel bag for travel.''Read Next:''The 10 Best Hiking Backpacks to Conquer Mountains in 2018''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''Best Travel Laptops and Convertibles; Don’t Buy The Wrong Computer!''Camping in Iceland? Here are 25 Iceland Ring Road Trip Tips''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Cameron''After years of traveling around Europe, we’ve crafted the perfect Europe packing list. It’s not a big deal if you’re struggling with what to pack for your first trip to Europe. Before our travels abroad we spent months debating about what to pack for a trip to Europe.''Everyone’s been there before a trip and we often get asked by readers what should be on their packing list for Europe.''What’s great about this Europe packing list is that it’s a good base packing list for two weeks in Europe, as well as a fantastic Europe packing list for winter, spring, fall, and summer! The idea is to break down the essential items for your trip and give you an idea of what you should carry in your suitcase or backpack.''A Europe Packing list''Travel Essential for Europe''Walking Shoes''A good pair of comfortable walking shoes is important\xa0for getting around European cities. Ever since we lived in New York we’ve been big on walking around cities instead of taking cabs or public transport. Hitting the sidewalk and letting the city unfurl around you is one of the best ways to get familiar with a city in Europe.''I love to throw these''women’s walking shoes''in my luggage because of their style and comfort. While''Cameron loves these boots for men''because they look great with any pair of jeans.''Check out more of our favorite travel shoes here!''Pick Them Up Here!''Guide Book''We like to look online and at other travel blogs for inspiration on what to do in Europe. However, sometimes it’s nice to take your eyes off a screen. We always have a''Lonely Planet''or''Rick Steves guide book''in our bags.''Pick Them It up Here!''Travel Adaptor''You will definitely need an adaptor for your electronics on your packing list for Europe. We always keep one handy in our''carry-on bags'', that way we can charge electronics on arrival or at the airport.''You’ll need the''British “Type G” three prong\xa0adaptor''for the United Kingdom. However, most of Europe uses the''Type C, F, and E adaptor.''Check out the''one I have''which is good for all of Europe.''The exception is if you’re''going to Switzerland''where you may need the''Type J Adapter.''Pick Them It up Here!''Backpack or Suitcase''Whether you’re backpacking around Europe, skiing in the Alps, or traveling for business you will be need something to keep some form of luggage. I travel with the''Osprey Farpoint''and love it for its durability and ability to zip\xa0up into hand luggage.''Cameron has converted''to a stylish duffel bag and hasn’t looked back since''. Check out our''favorite backpacks to travel Europe''with and our favorite''carry-on backpacks.''Pick Them It up Here!''Quick Dry Towel''Quick dry towels are''GOLD''for those staying hostels, and should be on every backpacking Europe packing list. After five years of traveling around the world, I have learned to never travel without one. They are light and fold up small, and two the towels can dry within one hour. We have the''Youphoria towel''and it works well.''This is essential if you are camping or staying anywhere except hotels. Even the most expert traveler should pack a towel in their bag. We break down more of the''best quick dry towels here.''Pick Them It up Here!''Electronics''Camera and memory card''You’ll want a good travel camera if you’re going on vacation to Europe! I travel with the''Fujifilm X-T10''which I love for walking around cities. The camera is lightweight and doesn’t scream HEY LOOK AT ME I’M A TOURIST.''We’ve used the camer around Africa and Europe! You’ll also want to make sure you have a memory card to store all your photos in. I have a''64 GB memory card''since I take lots of photos and video.''Pick Them It up Here!''Laptop and Hard Drive''As a blogger, my laptop is my life. It’s one of the few possessions that I own so of course, I travel around Europe with one. I’m a Apple person so naturally, I have a''Macbook Pro''to get me around. If you’re in the market I’d suggest reading up on''our favorite travel laptops''.''We travel with three (yes three)''Seagate external hard drives''to house all our photos and videos. That may be excessive, but we take a lot of photo and video. Most travelers will just need something simple like a''thumb drive for storage.''Pick Them It up Here!''D-Link Wireless Range Extender''This is helpful for extending the range of the WiFi in your guesthouse, hotel, or hostel. You’ll never have to fight for hours with WiFi again!''Check the price here!''Pick Them It up Here!''Apparel''Bathing Suit''Cliff jumping in Cyprus''?''Sailing in the Mediterranean?''You’ll want some''nice beach essentials''in your summer packing list for Europe! Even if it’s not summertime in Europe it never hurts to have a swimsuit in your suitcase. I to travel with both a''one piece''and''a two piece''in case I want to be more conservative. Cameron''likes these men swim trunks.''Pick Them It up Here!''Rain Jacket''No matter the season a rain jacket is never a bad outerwear item to bring.''Check out this one on Amazon!''Pick Them It up Here!''A Nice Outfit''I would suggest bringing a''chic black dress''for the ladies and a nice dress shirt and pants for the men. Or Cameron now travels with a''tailored suit''. Most Europeans are pretty stylish, especially in the cities. You’ll want to make sure you have at least one nice outfits for nights out.''Pick Them It up Here!''ExOfficio Underwear''These underwear are well known for their Quick-drying, lightweight, and odor resistant technology. Shop both''men’s''and''women’s.''Pick Them It up Here!''Active Wear''Make sure to bring at least one pair of athletic/hiking clothes to Europe for outdoor activities and to motivate you to work out. A good pair of''yoga pants'', quick dry shirt, and at least one sports bra for the ladies is ideal. My favorite hiking shoes are the Merrell Moab Ventilators for''women''and''men.''Pick Them It up Here!''Packable Down Jacket''This is an essential travel item that everyone should throw in their bag. One of the''best packable down jackets''is one of the most versatile travel items on the market. When layered it can handle cold winter weather, but it’s also light enough to be worn on a cool evening. It’s a lifesaver for that impromptu trip to''Iceland''or the''Faroe Islands.''Pick Them It up Here!''Scarf''Scarves are great for fall and winter in Europe. It gets really cold especially in the winter so they are perfect for both''men''and''women.''Pick Them It up Here!''Additional items that should be on your travel list for Europe''Makeup''This one is for the ladies, and I wanted to note. If you’re coming from America the makeup\xa0in Europe can be expensive in comparison to prices in the states. My first trip to Europe was almost a year long so I made sure I had enough mascara, eyeliner, and face powder to get me through that year without spending a fortune for my favorite brand.''Pick Them It up Here!''Travel Pillow''We’ve suffered through enough red-eye flights to never forget to pack a travel pillow for international flights. My favorite travel pillow is the''Cabeau Evolution Pillow'', but we break down more of our''favorite travel pillows here''.''Pick Them It up Here!''Water Bottle''We’ve never ever had a problem with the tap water in Europe, and I hate wasting money and creating waster through plastic water bottles every day. Our favorite water bottle to travel with is the''Lifestraw Go''since it filters out bacteria. Here are our reviews on the''best travel water bottles''.''Pick Them It up Here!''Packing cubes''Packing cubes are great for any backpack or suitcase.''They keep all of your clothes and toiletries organized. I’ve had''these Eagle Creek cubes''for three years now and think they were worth the investment to stay organized and create space in my luggage.''Pick Them It up Here!''Small Purse or Passport Holder''For the women, I suggest traveling with a''theft-proof purse that is black''and stylish to hold belongings. Cameron has a great''passport wallet''that holds his passport and credit cards so he never leaves it anywhere.''Pick Them It up Here!''Ear Plugs''These are crucial in getting rest for anyone! Where you’re flying in business class or sleeping in a hostel a good pair of earplugs will help you sleep.''Pick Them It up Here!''How to pack for Europe''It’s important to determine when and where you will be traveling before you decide what to pack in your suitcase. Don’t forget to take into account seasons in Europe and regional climates. For instance, having a thick''down jacket''in the Mediterranean may be overkill in the winter.''Check the forecast before you pack your suitcase!''Many places in Europe can get hot during the summer, only to turn to freezing temperatures in the winter months. Northern Europe can be a bit milder. I’ll never forget to get cold on the streets of London in the middle of their summer. That’s why I always suggest packing in layers and bringing at least one warm weather outfit wherever you go.''Europeans are stylish, so no hiking clothes please unless you want to be pegged as a tourist. Somewhere along the line, the idea came about that backpacking in Europe means you’re some adventurer tackling mountains, not cities. Take that into consideration when you are planning for dinner and night dates out. Find clothes that are versatile, comfortable, and look good. My number one clothing packing tip for Europe is to remember that…''Black is always in season!''I would also always pack a few pairs of shoes for any trip to Europe. Good walking shoes are essential, as well as flip-flops if you’re staying in hostels, flats or heels for women, and a pair of loafers or something similar for men. You’ll be walking around cities quite a bit so always take that into consideration.''What not to bring to Europe''Tons of Cash:''If I can give you just one packing tip for Europe it would be to chill out on the cash''.''Travel to Europe with enough cash to get you by for a day or so. We don’t recommend you travel with an excessive amount of cash in your luggage. ATM’s are prevalent and often give a flat exchange rate. This saves you the liability of walking around with cash. So, forget the stupid travel wallet and carry a normal one in a front pocket.''Flashy Jewelry:''When you travel anywhere we suggest leaving the valuable jewelry at home. When you do travel with expensive items make sure to save it for special occasions and store in the hotel safe. Sometimes, we store large sums of cash or expensive items in the hotel’s master safe, just ask the front desk.''Bright Neon Colors:''Before I left for my first trip around the world I colored my hair brown to “blend in.” While I was wanting to blend in I still brought hot pink and lime green shirts to Denmark, Germany, and Holland. Needless to say, I stuck out like a sore thumb. Neutral colors work best.''Sweats and ratty baseball caps:''They scream American…and not in a good way.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Europe''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''We like to use''Hotels.com''to and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Read Next:''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''What To Pack For Ireland • The Perfect Ireland Packing List''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''was last modified:''May 1st, 2018''by''Natasha''Looking for best things to do in Canada? So were we on our recent trip to British Columbia, Quebec, and Alberta. However Canada is so much more than three provinces and it would take a whole lifetime to explore the beautiful country. That’s why we’ve asked our travel blogging friends to help us create the ultimate list of places to see in Canada. From Prince Edward Island to Tofino we tried to cover as many of the fun things to do in Canada that we could.''Canada is''the''spot for a vacation these days. The country has just about everything for any taste and they just celebrated their 150th birthday! If you’re looking for the great outdoors than there is hardly a better country than the second biggest on earth. There are an endless amount of landscapes, wildlife, and cities to marvel at.''So pack your bags and get ready to spot a moose (''if you’re lucky'')!''50 Things to do in Canada''Things to do in Canada • Ontario''Edge Walk the CN Tower in Toronto''Take your CN Tower visit a notch higher and walk around the circumference of the roof! You and a group (6 maximum) will first go to a room to be fitted in orange jumpsuits and a harness. Make sure you’re wearing closed-toed shoes with a sturdy grip! You will be asked to remove piercings and other metal accessories. The guide will check all shoes are properly on. You will go up the elevator and have cables attached to your harness once you’re at the roof’s opening.''The guide will have you do tricks—leaning back and forward over the edge and viewing the Skydome through your legs! Video and photos are included in the price.''I recommend booking online to reserve a spot''. The great thing is, the price includes admission to other CN Tower activities as well. It’s a spectacular experience—Niagara Falls and Mississauga’s Marilyn Monroe buildings will be visible on a clear day.''-God and Wanderlust''Take a Kingston Trolley Tour''If you’re in''Kingston, Ontario''– you have to take a ride on the famous Kingston Trolley. The vintage red trolley cars parade around the city and will take you on a historical tour around Kingston and the surrounding neighborhoods – all to the comical commentary from a fun driver.''This classic tour takes visitors to see Fort Henry, the infamous Kingston Penitentiary, and Bellevue House – where Canada’s first Prime Minister lived, among other sights built from limestone. What better way to see the historic “Limestone City” that was once Canada’s capital way back when! As a “hop on, hop off” tour, you’re also free to explore the areas and get back on the next trolley.''To hop on the Trolley simply head downtown via Princess Street and find the Kingston Visitor Experience Centre, located at the old train station by the waterfront on Ontario Street. This is where you also purchase tickets (around\xa0$25) and hop on board. The beautiful Kingston waterfront is surrounded by hotels, and there’s plenty of restaurants and patios to grab a bite before or after you ride''-Penguin and Pia''Explore the Giant Trail in Sleeping Giant Provincial Park''For me, one of the best things to do in Canada is to explore\xa0the incredible natural beauty in the form of hiking. One of Canada’s best hikes is the Top of the Giant Trail in Sleeping Giant Provincial Park. The Top of the Giant Trail is 2.7 kilometers, but don’t let that fool you.''You have to hike two other trails just to get to it, making the trail over 20 kilometers return. Along with the distance, part of the trail will have you ascending ‘the giant’, nearly vertically. But the views, and there are quite a few, are astounding. Taking the trail to its furthest reaches will have you standing atop one of Ontario’s highest cliffs, over 600 feet above Lake Superior.''Located an hour outside of''Thunder Bay, Ontario'', Sleeping Giant Provincial Park is a not only a great place to explore, with over 100 kilometers of trails but also to stay. With over 200 campsites, including backcountry sites, as well as rustic cabins, there’s something for everyone.''-Lady’s Travel Blog''Enjoy Mexican food in Aylmer''Aylmer Ontario is a small town in southern Ontario Canada that sits halfway between Buffalo, New York and''Detroit, Michigan''on Highway 401.''Driving through Aylmer Village you will see some strikingly beautiful Victorian homes. Dripping with gingerbread and situated on deep green lawns these homes have been lovingly preserved over the years making Aylmer one of the prettiest places in Southwest Ontario. Many of these lovely homes have been turned into B&B’s. You will occasionally see the horse-drawn buggies and realize you are in the Mennonite and Amish country.''The Mexican Mennonites who live in and around Aylmer have returned here after their ancestors fled to Canada in the 1920’s to avoid conscription. They refused to fight in any wars as they are committed to non-violence.''Thankfully for us''Mexican food loving Canadians'', these hardworking people (who still speak Spanish) have brought with them their Mexican foods and ingredients and create bake. They sell a huge range of Mexican inspired dishes and ingredients in local shops and restaurants they have opened.''-Xyu and Beyond''Tour\xa0Canada’s Parliament buildings''Canada’s Parliament buildings located in Ottawa, are an absolute must-see in the capital city. It’s one of the most beautiful buildings in Canada and is considered to be the heart of Ottawa.\xa0It’s in the core of the city, within walking distance to many hotels, restaurants, and other tourist attractions such as Byward Market and the Canal.''Canada’s Parliament Buildings consist of three buildings; Centre Block, East Block, and West Block. It dates back to 1866, however, everything except for the library was burned in a massive fire in 1916. The buildings seen today are designed in a gothic revival style with hundreds of carvings, reliefs, and gargoyles.''Tours are free to visitors year round and run on a first come first serve basis. Tickets can be found at''90 Wellington Street'', which is just across from Parliament. The tours run 20-45 minutes depending on how busy Parliament is, with the major highlight being a look inside the library (center block). Once the tour is over guests can also visit the Peace Tower which has panoramic views of the city''– Ireland Stole My Heart''Go for a winter hike in the Northeast''While the summer is often the time set aside for getting outdoors, winter hiking offers is the time to experience a different kind of beauty. Canadians have always been about embracing what is presented to them, and making the best of everything, so why not go for a hike in the winter?''My personal favorite area for all things winter hiking is in Northeastern Ontario. In particular, Windy Lake National Park (not far from Sudbury) as it offers some of the finest winter views around. Moreover, if you’d like to do more than just hike you can also do a fair bit of cross-country skiing, as well as snowmobiling. In Northeastern Ontario, the town of Killarney offers more incredible hiking opportunities. Killarney Provincial Park is merely a 15-minute drive away, and the hiking found on the Granite Ridge Trail is some of the finest in Canada in my opinion. You don’t have to be an expert either as this area is open to people of all hiking abilities.''-Traveling Mitch''Things to do in Canada''•''Manitoba''Search for polar bears in Churchill''If you want to see polar bears in their natural habitat (and who wouldn’t?),''there’s no better place than Churchill,''which rightfully bills itself as the “Polar Bear Capital Of The World.” Located on the shores of Hudson Bay in the sub-Arctic region of northern Manitoba, Churchill is prime bear-watching territory thanks to chilly winds that turn the shallow water into ice early in the season. In October and November, hundreds of hungry polar bears make the pilgrimage to these shores to wait for enough ice to form that they can go out in search of their favorite delicacy, ringed seals.''There are only a few options for staying amongst these massive mammals: We chose''Natural Habitat’s Arctic Tundra Lodge''. The mobile lodge consists of two sleeper cars holding up to 29 passengers, a lounge car, a dining car, and a car for the 6-person crew. During four days there, you’re virtually guaranteed a bear-lover’s dream come true, with 24-hour a day access to all the sleeping, staring, cuddling and play-fighting polar bears your heart desires.''Attracted by the smells coming from the kitchen, there were rarely less than four or five polar bears within 50 feet of our lodge. Daily excursions in polar rover vehicles allowed us to explore the area, where we saw Arctic foxes, Arctic hares, snowy owls, and an occasional polar bear. But to be honest, the best viewings came from the cozy comforts of our lodge, where the bears were always right outside our windows.\xa0This is easily one of the best things to do in Canada.''-Green Global Travel''Snorkle with belugas''Many people know that Churchill, Manitoba is the world capital of polar bears but many don’t know that it’s also the world capital of Beluga whales! Each and every summer, tens of thousands of Beluga whales travel through the Hudson Bay, passing by the unique Northern community of Churchill.''This is an incredible opportunity to get up close and personal with the intelligent mammals and see them in a variety of ways, including by boat, kayak, or even snorkel with them in the water! We’ve been all over Canada and all over the world and this is easily one of the best experiences we’ve ever had. When we''snorkeled with a family of Beluga whales''they came so close we could almost touch them.''-Must Do Canada''Enjoy a Thermëa Spa in Winnipeg''This Nordic-inspired spa''isn’t what you’d expect to find in a prairie city. Promoting rejuvenation through a warm-cold-rest cycle, this oasis in Winnipeg’s south end features sixteen different relaxation areas. Start by heating your core temperature in the steam room or with an aufguss sauna ritual. Inhale the essential oils that the sauna meister swirls through the air with a towel while moving in rhythm to the music. Get a boost of adrenaline next by plunging into a pool cooled to 15C, swimming beneath a waterfall to reach the other side.''The cycle’s complete when you head into the relaxation pavilion for a cup of tea by the fire. The spa is open year-round but enjoying it in winter is a unique experience. You can dine at the on-site resto, and accommodation packages are available at several area hotels. The trendy Alt Hotel downtown is perfectly situated for enjoying many of Winnipeg’s other key attractions.''– TagAlongTravel.com''Things to do in Canada''•''Saskatchewan''Tour the lighthouse on the prairies''With the nearest ocean more than 1500km (930mi) away, the Humboldt water tower, masquerading as a lighthouse, makes a bold architectural statement. Built in 1915 to supply the Saskatchewan town with drinking water, the standpipe reservoir shimmers against an endless prairie backdrop of blue sky.''The city of Humboldt has situated 113 km (70 mi) east of Saskatoon at the intersection of Highway 5 and Highway 20. In 1996, with the landlocked lighthouse falling into serious disrepair, community volunteers set about restoring the unique structure. Guided tours are available in the summer months and by appointment the rest of the year.''The tour includes a climb of the 143 spiral stairs to the exterior catwalk. The 360-degree view of the prairies and the city of Humboldt itself are well worth the effort. Information about the tours can be found by visiting the''Humboldt Museum''website.''-Travel Tales of Life''Visit Grasslands National Park''Most people who are visiting Canada, and even Canadians themselves, skip the middle part of Canada – Saskatchewan! Empty roads and endless skies make\xa0Grasslands National Park one of my favorite places to visit in Canada.''The most accessible part of the park is the West Block, which can be accessed via the little town of\xa0Val Marie. In Val Marie, you’ll find a small supermarket and visitor center where you can pick up a map. In the park, there are several hiking opportunities. We chose the 4km, 70 Mile Butte hike where you’ll have amazing 360 views over the plains at the top. We camped at the well-organized Frenchman Valley campground, located in the park.''From the campground several activities are organized daily, one of those is a tour of the Bison Facility. There is around 600 bison living in the National Park and while they are wild animals and free to roam the entire park, each year they are rounded up for a count and medical checkup at the Bison Facility.\xa0Altogether the''Grasslands National Park''is absolutely worth a visit, so put it on your Canadian itinerary!''-Phenomenal Globe Travel Blog''Things to do in Canada''•''Nova Scotia''Drive the Lighthouse Route''Only a short drive from Halifax, Nova Scotia’s biggest city; the Lighthouse Route is a scenic driving trail along the South Shore from Peggy’s Cove to Yarmouth.''The first stop is the iconic lighthouse at Peggy’s Cove.\xa0 Set upon a huge granite outcrop, this lighthouse was once one of the signallers for entrance into St. Margaret’s Bay.\xa0 These days it is unused but is one of Nova Scotia’s most photographed landmarks.''However, the jewel in the Lighthouse Route’s crown is the town of Lunenburg.\xa0 With a fascinating history of privateering, shipbuilding, and fisheries – Lunenburg isn’t short on interesting things to discover.\xa0 It’s also home to one of the few 19''th''Century wooden buildings surviving in Canada, Lunenburg Academy, which sits dramatically atop ‘Gallows Hill’.\xa0 Take a tour from the waterfront on a horse and cart; or visit the Bluenose II, the replica tall ship maintained by the Lunenburg Marine Museum.''Other picturesque towns on this trail are Chester and Mahone Bay, with waterfront cafés and quaint B&Bs.\xa0 Fun fact:\xa0 Lunenburg and the gorgeous South Shore has been the backdrop for TV series’ such as ‘Haven’, and movies such as ‘Jumping the Broom’ and ‘Dolores Claiborne’.''-Hannah Henderson Travel''Go tidal bore rafting''Tidal bore rafting in Nova Scotia''is definitely one of the best things to do in Canada for those who are seeking adventure! The Bay of Fundy is known to have the most extreme tidal changes in the world, which is the natural force that creates this extreme pursuit. Shortly after low tide, the incoming tide gets squeezed into the narrowing river mouths, which temporarily changes the course of the river to flow upstream! That’s called a “tidal bore.”''On the Shubenacadie River near the town of Maitland, the water rushes into the\xa0river so quickly and with so much ferocity that a series of intense rapids temporarily forms. This tidal bore occurs on the Shubenacadie just after each tidal change and rafting operators have it timed perfectly give thrill seekers a chance to run these unique upstream rapids!''Shubenacadie River Runners''is a trusted outfitter for tidal bore rafting that we can personally recommend. The cost for the three-hour rafting trip is $85 CAD. It’s located about a one-hour drive from Halifax, which is a convenient hub to stay at when exploring the area. The intensity of the rapids is dictated by the moon cycle. We recommend going just after a full moon, which yields the biggest waves!''-Roaming Around the World''Things to do in Canada''•''British Columbia''Drink wine in the Okanagan Valley''A wine tour in British Columbia’s picturesque Okanagan Valley, one of the world’s top emerging wine regions, is well worth a visit. Wineries run the gamut from small, family-owned affairs to large world-class wineries. Though the valley has only been producing great wines for 30 or so years, you’ll find varieties here from delicate whites to robust reds. The Okanagan Valley itself is flanked by mountain ranges, forests, deep mountain lakes, and is also home to apple, pear, peach and other fruit orchards.''You can self-drive, take a bus tour, or enjoy the region on a cycling or kayak tour.\xa0Most visitors stay in the small city of''Kelowna,''which is the region’s main hub, but there’s great accommodation\xa0all along the 200 kilometers\xa0(125 miles) Okanagan Valley. You can fly directly into the Kelowna International Airport, but many visitors prefer the scenic four-hour drive from Vancouver.''–''The Barefoot Nomad''Head to Tofino''Tucked away on the west coast of Vancouver Island, which is itself off the west coast of Canada, is the district of Tofino. Its wild scenery of ancient rainforest bordering sandy beaches is a\xa0sight to behold, and well worth the trek from mainland Canada. Tofino is a year-round paradise for surfers, but it’s also a great escape for city dwellers and nature lovers who want can\xa0wander through the beautiful forests alongside giant trees, and along the rugged Pacific coastline.''Whale-watching is a popular pursuit, as whales grace Clayoquot Sound for a long season\xa0between March and October, with many also stopping off at natural hot springs accessible only by boat. The main places to stay on the peninsula are Tofino township and Ucluelet, with\xa0options to suit all budget-levels and tastes from backpackers, to hotels and eco-friendly lodges.''-Migrating Miss''Grizzly bear watch at the\xa0Great Bear Rainforest''I’ll never forget my first sighting of a grizzly bear in Canada’s''Great Bear Rainforest.''It was a rare privilege to even be there as there are no roads. A trip by boat or, as we did, seaplane, from Port Hardy on the northern tip of Vancouver Island, are the only ways to the Great Bear Rainforest.''Imagine dripping moss hanging from the trees reaching out over the water as you drift along exploring the waterways through ancient forests of cedar and\xa0spruce trees. As the light begins to fade the forest takes on a magical ora. And then two fluffy ears peek out above the grass-like sedge that lines the river banks. The hours of searching is eventually rewarded as a great grizzly walks to the water’s edge leaving you in awe.''Of all the bears we spotted in the Great Bear Rainforest,''the largest by far and the one most curious of us is pictured. Slowly sidling towards us, intermittently sniffing the air for our scent while gazing sideways directly at me as us in curiosity.''-Travel With Kat''Canoe in Emerald Lake''As soon as you arrive at Emerald Lake, it will become clear where its name comes from. The water is so beautifully green that you won’t believe your eyes.''The best time to visit this lake is early summer when the color of the water is at its most vibrant due to the meltwater. It is normally frozen between November to early June.''The whole area of Yoho National Park is awe-inspiring, but the magic of this place is that it’s only a 20-minute drive from Lake Louise and not nearly as well known, you can soak in the spectacular surroundings of the Rocky Mountains without the crazy crowds.''The best way to enjoy the lake is by getting up close and personal on a canoe. Hiring a canoe is not cheap ($70/hour), but it’s well worth taking in the beautiful views from the water. Even if the nearby Emerald Lake Lodge gets busy, you will very likely have the whole lake to yourself.''-Brogan Abroad''Hike Marble Canyon''Kootenay National Park is 35 minutes from the Canadian Rockies hot spots of Banff and Lake Louise, just over the Alberta line in British Columbia. While Kootenay may not get the number of visitors Banff and''Jasper National Parks''experience, adventurers who make the trip to Marble Canyon will find a quieter spot with all the spectacular natural beauty for which Alberta and British Columbia are known.''Marble Canyon is typically accessible year-round, making it an ideal place to hike in the warmer months and snowshoe during the winter. The glacial waters of Tokumm Creek and the Vermillion River come together and shimmer hues of turquoise as they wind through the narrow, but deep canyon gorge. The short trail climbs uphill but has steps, bridges, and railings to make navigating the path doable for all visitors.''In addition to Marble Canyon, several longer trails connect to the path for deeper exploration of the area (Check conditions in winter to be sure these trails are safe.) and the Continental Divide monument and hiking path is just a few kilometers up the road from the Marble Canyon trailhead.''-The Globetrotting Teacher''Cruise the Inside Passage''You don’t need to spend thousands on an expensive multi-day cruise to enjoy the stunning scenery along''Canada’s Inside Passage''.''During the summer, BC Ferries runs an Inside Passage day cruise that plies these picture-perfect waters between Port Hardy, on the northern tip of Vancouver Island, and Prince Rupert, one of the remotest places in BC.''For just over $200 (more if you bring your vehicle) you get roughly 16 hours cruising through narrow passageways, past steep mountains, cascading waterfalls and the odd remote building.''The ships are big and comfortable with ample space for all passengers to take in the views, whether it be from the warmth of the inside cabin or enjoying the fresh air on deck.''The best thing about this cruise for me was the abundance of whales I encountered along the way. I saw dozens, some were even jumping right out of the water, putting on a great show for those who were braving the cold and wet on the deck.''-The Trusted Traveller''Explore the Sunshine Coast''A mere 40-minute ferry ride from Vancouver stands the stunning''Sunshine Coast in British Columbia''. Known for its outdoor activities; locals and visitors enjoy hiking, biking and lake swimming. There are ten swimming lakes the Pender Harbour District alone! Favorites include Ruby Lake, titled so because it turns red at sunset apparently, and Katherine Lake – great for families and rock jumpers.''Hiring a car is recommended as although the ferry from Vancouver is frequent, the local bus service is sparse around the lake areas. Car rental can be collected from the larger town of Sechelt for relatively cheap. Although you cannot swim in it, a visit to Skookumchuck Narrows is also recommended. The natural river rapids explode two-three times per day in Summer so the fifty-minute hike is definitely worth it for the event!''-Two Scots Abroad''Hike to Kinney Lake in Mount Robson Provincial Park''Just an hour’s drive from Jasper National Park, along beautiful forest-shaded roads and past glimmering lakes, you’ll find one of Canada’s best-kept secrets. Kinney Lake, nestled within Mount Robson Provincial Park, is one of the most breathtaking hiking trails in the Canadian Rockies and makes the perfect day trip for those craving a more remote mountain experience, away from the crowds of Banff and Jasper.''The hike to Kinney Lake is a comfortable 9km return loop, along the Berg Lake Trail, starting from the Mount Robson Visitor Centre car-park. The trail passes alongside the roaring Robson River and through moss-covered paths before reaching stunning Kinney Lake itself – a peaceful glacial lake tucked between the towering peaks. If you time it right and you could have the whole place to yourselves!''There’s a picnic area at the lake, where you can stop and admire the views before looping back or, alternatively, pitch up at the lakeside campground and spend a night under the stars.''-Part Time Passport''Chopper to a glacier''Many people just think of Whistler as a winter destination. However, head up to the mountains in summer and you’ll find plenty of outdoor activities. One of the most extravagant is to take a helicopter up to one of the''inaccessible glaciers in the mountains''. After an incredibly-scenic flight, you’ll land amongst the rocks and the snow. From here, you can start to explore the surroundings.''I would suggest going with one of the longer options that allows you to go out hiking along the mountain ridges and across the glacier. You’re almost guaranteed to be the only people up here, with the glacier all to yourself and breathtaking views in every direction.''You can book your trip with Blackcomb Helicopters and they’ll pick you up from your hotel in Whistler town. Make sure you have a chat with them in advance about the exact trip you want.''-Time Travel Turtle''Sail the Gulf Islands''The Gulf Islands sit sheltered between mainland British Columbia and''Vancouver Island''and make an ideal vacation spot for nature lovers. There are more than 200 islands scattered throughout the Strait of Georgia (aka the Salish Sea) but only a handful of the larger islands are accessible by ferry.''This means that sailing around the islands on a private boat is not only an amazing and memorable experience but also one that makes you feel like you’re part of an exclusive club. You can still explore the markets, artist studios, and wineries in the towns reached by ferry, but what you will likely find even more exciting is navigating through the smaller, craggy islands to find your own secluded beach or quiet bay to moor for the night.''Don’t have your own sailboat? Not to worry, you can charter a private boat if you have some sailing experience or you can join a small group on a sailing charter vacation anywhere from 3 days or up to two weeks.''-Discover the PNW''Whale watch in Vancouver''When visiting Vancouver''whale watching''is a must. The sea around Vancouver is home to large pods of orcas, as well as plenty of other types such as humpback whales, grey whales and minke whales that pass through these waters.''After checking in and a safety briefing, you are off for a morning of whale watching adventure. We were personally lucky enough to see a pod of killer whales hunting since this meant they were resurfacing more often than if they were just swimming. During the tour, you’re not only searching for whales, but also other sea creatures like seals, sea lions, otters, and birds. Seeing these beautiful animals in their natural habitat is truly an extraordinary experience, which I highly recommend to anyone visiting Vancouver.''Check out a few of whale watching tours here.''-Greta’s Travels''Things to do in Canada''•''Prince Edward Islands''Relive Anne of Green Gables''The popular fictional novel''Anne of Green Gables''was set on the Prince Edward Islands. Since its publication in 1908, the novel has sold more than\xa0has sold more than 50 million copies across the globe! For book lovers, it’s possible to experience the Anne of Green Gable’s package on PEI. This experience includes visiting the Anne of Green Gables Museum, checking out the Green Gables Heritage Place, watching''Anne & Gilbert: The Musical,''and seeing the birthplace of the author.''It’s one of the most popular things to do on the islands and attracts many visitors each year.''-The World Pursuit''Indian Canoe around Covehead Bay''Just a short car drive from the P.E.I. National Park is a popular destination for many avid beachgoers. Covehead Bay on the North Shore of Prince Edward Island is a charming region that allows you to step back in time and be as active or as laid back as you choose.''Waste away the day eating fresh\xa0lobster rolls and drinking a cold beer\xa0at\xa0\xa0Richard’s Fresh Seafood\xa0restaurant at the mouth of the harbor on Covehead Wharf. In the afternoon take a stroll to the beautiful Covehead lighthouse. For those feeling a little more adventurous, hire a canoe and paddle out to enjoy peace and serenity while taking in the stunning views of the bright red cliffs, the sandy beaches and the grassy\xa0dunes that make this area so memorable. Outside Expeditions offers good value canoe and kayak hire starting at $50 an hour for a tandem sea kayak.''-It’s a Drama''Things to do in Canada''•''North West Territories''Hike Yellowknife''Yellowknife, Northwest Territories may not be the most popular destination in Canada. It’s a bit hard to get to and is more associated with Canadian diamond mining than as a travel destination.\xa0 But there are incredible things to do in Yellowknife that make the journey worth it. One of my favorite thing to do is go''winter hiking''.''The wilderness of the Northwest Territories is untouched, and when coated by freshly fallen powder, it becomes absolutely magical. While the winter days of Yellowknife may be short, there are not many other places where you can hike over frozen waterfalls underneath the glow of the majestic Northern Lights. When your hike is finished, you can warm up in one of the artsy pubs or restaurants that are taking over this northern Canadian city.''-Wandering Wagars''Go fishing at the\xa0Great Slave Lake''This freshwater lake located in the southern half of the Northwest Territories is massive, to say the least. Great Slave Lake is the 11th largest in the world and the second largest entirely within Canada. At 28,568 square kilometers it is even bigger than some countries! One of the best things to do in Canada is go fly-fishing. The lake has an abundance of pike, arctic grayling, and trout.''The lakes massive size means you can fish for days without ever seeing anyone else. Its northern location means 24-hours of daylight so hardcore fishers have to take a break.''-The World Pursuit''Things to do in Canada''•''Alberta''Strap some crampons on''The last two years or so my girlfriend and I have gotten heavily into hiking so we figured a trip to Canada was in order. We drove through the Rockies and visited all the major spots but the most incredible area we found for easy access hiking was in Canmore.\xa0 The town is heavily surrounded on all sides by literally dozens of peaks that are hikeable. Some of these hikes are multi-day while some are shorter at only 5 or 6 hours.''Three notable hikes are Ha Ling, East End of Rundle and Lady MacDonald. All very steep and take a full day, but the views are beyond incredible. Ha Ling is the easiest of the three and most accessible for the average hiker. The other two require crampons and an ice ax in the winter.''East End of Rundle and Ha Ling are both accessed from the same car park, so if you feel like starting early and having a massive day you could potentially do both. Lady Mac is a short walk from Cougar Creek car park and has an insane ridge walk not far from the peak. Great for adventure junkies!''-Holiday From Where''Ice Skate on Lake Louise''Many people know about the beautiful\xa0blue waters of Lake Louise\xa0in Banff National Park. However, did you know that in the winter the entire lake freezes and you can ice skate on it? It’s true! As soon as the lake freezes the Chateau Lake Louise creates a few separate ice rink on the lake. Nearby, they rent out ice skates for winter lovers to enjoy a skate or hockey game! We were actually very surprised how great of shape the hotel kept these little ice rinks.''Don’t worry if you’re not a skater! One of the best things to do in Canada in the winter is a walk across Lake Louise and through the trees. Watch out for the horse-drawn carriages taking visitors through the winter wonderland.''This is one of the best things to do in Banff,''especially in December when Christmas is in the air.''-The World Pursuit''Walk on the Athabasca Glacier''Jasper National Park is blessed to have a plethora of breathtaking panoramic landscapes and experiences that will leave visitors speechless. Perhaps the one attraction that epitomizes both of these aspects is the Athabasca Glacier. The exhilarating experience of walking on a glacier becomes a reality when you participate in the''Glacier Adventure''courtesy of Brewster Travel Canada.''Hop on board the one of a kind “Ice Explorer,” a dynamic vehicle perfectly designed for glacier transportation. When you arrive on the glacier, your immediate reaction may be to worry about breaking through the ice, but once you hear it’s approximately\xa090–300 meters (300–980\xa0ft.) thick, your fears are quickly alleviated.''Take a moment to admire the awe-inspiring scenery. The landscapes are incredible as you enjoy views across the Columbia Icefield. If you are planning a visit to the Athabasca Glacier, you can easily stay in the town of Jasper and take day trips in.''The Columbia Icefield Glacier Discovery Centre offers visitors the opportunity to grab a bite to eat while reflecting on the amazing experience.''-A Brit and a Southerner''Experience indigenous culture firsthand''If you’re curious about''indigenous culture in Canada'',''Painted Warriors Ranch''near Calgary offers an opportunity to experience it firsthand in a genuine and respectful way. Learn about First Nations and Metis culture at this family-owned indigenous business, tucked into the woods in the foothills of the''Canadian Rockies.''Here you can unplug and enjoy a retreat as you spend the night outside “comfort camping” in a trapper tent. Get archery lessons and then head out into the woods for some 3D target practice. In the winter it’s possible to go snowshoeing through the woods as you hear about how traditional snowshoes were made and used by First Nations people. And in warmer months, a foraging walk is a great way to learn about traditional medicine and gather ingredients for tea, learn fire making and wilderness survival skills, and put them to the test as you start a fire for dinner.''-Roaming the Americas''Go Prehistoric at Dinosaur Provincial Park''The heart of the Alberta Badlands is home to one of the worlds most significant and important dinosaur fossil areas. Over 50 different dinosaur species and over 150 complete dinosaur skeletons have been found in this UNESCO World Heritage Site. Various activities are organized for all ages to get to know the park and the surrounding landscape. You can join an informative hiking trail or you can go and explore the sites on your own. You can also learn all about dinosaurs in the interpretive center and go on a sunset photography tour. For the younger visitors, there is also a great children’s playground.''The location of the park is pretty remote with the closest town of Brooks being 48 km away. Drumheller is about a two-hour scenic drive away. However, both the dinosaurs and the awe-inspiring landscapes make the trip very worthwhile for anyone in Alberta. The best way to make the most of it is to stay overnight in the park.''The possibilities to overnight are either in the large campground with 120 sites or you can get a great glamping experience at their comfort camping site.''-The Travelling Chilli''Cliff dive at Horseshoe Lake''Horseshoe Lake is in Jasper National Park, just 30km south from a little alpine town Jasper. Although it’s along the famous scenic road Icefields Parkway, stretching from Banff to Jasper, it’s not on many people’s radar. Many Canadian turquoise lakes are beautiful to look at, but Horseshoe Lake is considered an adventurous destination.''Visiting Horseshoe Lake is great on a hot summer day. The water is crystal clear with amazing shades of green, surrounded by cliffs and very refreshing. It has a horseshoe shape and cliffs you can jump from, ranging from 1 to 20 meters. The water is quite cold for swimming but the adrenaline from cliff diving is what warms you up.''There is only one advice I would give to anyone visiting – be careful and work your way up from a small cliff to a bigger one. Accidents are common usually caused by people whose bravery exceeds their cliff jumping skills.''-Travel With The Smile''Hike Waterton Lakes''When visiting Alberta, Canada, many people flock immediately to Banff and Lake Louise. Little do they know that Alberta’s southernmost national park, Waterton Lakes, is just as beautiful and much less crowded. As the Canadian counterpart to Glacier National Park across the border in the United States, the landscape here features beautiful, jagged ridges separated by sparkling turquoise lakes. Combined with Glacier National Park, it is a recognized UNESCO World Heritage Site thanks to its jaw-dropping panoramas and abundant wildlife.''With several trails around the park, it’s the perfect destination for hikers of all levels. The most famed hiking challenge in Waterton Lakes is the Triple Crown, which consists of three challenging hikes – Crypt Lake, Alderson-Carthew, and Akamina Ridge. Hikers register at Pearls Café and will be recognized on the restaurant’s “Glory Board” upon completion (plus infinite bragging rights!). If you’re traveling to Alberta, make sure you put''hiking in Waterton Lakes''on your list!''-Jetfarer''Travel the Icefields Parkway''The Icefields Parkway is a stretch of roadway connecting and located in both Banff and Jasper National Parks. This is one of the most scenic roadways in the world! There are literally incredible mountains surrounding you all throughout the whole drive! Scenic overlooks, hiking trails, and beautiful turquoise lakes abound.''Places you do not want to miss are Peyto Lake, Bow Lake, and the Columbia Icefield where you can take a guided tour and walk on the Athabasca Glacier! The Saskatchewan River Crossing, about halfway through the drive, is the only place to stop for gas, so be sure to plan ahead. There’s also a small store and a restaurant there. At Bow Lake, there is a small lodge and restaurant to stay and grab a bite to eat. You’ll want a car to really experience the full parkway and take your time taking in the beauty and''snapping photos''.''-Camera & a Canvas''Things to do in Canada''•''New Brunswick''Join a night photography workshop''Participating in a night photography workshop is a way of creating memorable images of the spectacular Hopewell Rocks in''New Brunswick''. The water of the Bay of Fundy has helped shape the so-called ‘flowerpot rocks’ and is the location of the world’s highest tides.''Kevin Snair'', a professional photographer, offers a 2.5-hour Hopewell Rocks Night Photography Workshop to photographers of all levels of experience. He also works as an interpretative guide at Hopewell Rocks Provincial Park. Throughout the workshop, Kevin provides expert insights into the rock formations and history of the region.''The easiest way of reaching Hopewell Rocks is by car. Halifax Stansfield International Airport is only a three-hour drive from the provincial park.The''Innisfree Bed and Breakfast''is a couple of minutes’ drive from the carpark where Kevin meets the participants of his photography workshops. It is a restored farmhouse dating from 1847. The nearby''Broadleaf Guest Ranch''is a good place to grab dinner before heading to the Hopewell Rocks.''– Go Eat Do''Visit the King’s Landing Historical Settlement''King’s Landing Historical Settlement is New Brunswick’s most popular tourist destination. Just a 30-minute drive west of Fredericton, King’s Landing is a 19th-century village featuring actual homes, businesses, and artifacts that were transported to the area in anticipation of the flood that would be caused by the construction of the Mactaquac Dam.''King’s Landing is not just another theme village staffed by students. It’s a living, working community staffed by actors and real-life tradespeople (like printers, blacksmiths, and millworkers), whose job it is to make you feel like you are there in time. You get a history lesson from people who treat you as though you are a visitor to their homes and businesses in the 19th century. King’s Landing is a wonderfully immersive site, unlike anything you’ll ever experience.''-RTW Guys''Experience the changing tides at the Bay of Fundy''The Bay of Fundy, located between the Canadian Provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, is one of the seven wonders of North America. Because of its shape and resonance, the''Bay of Fundy''is home to the world’s highest tides, which rise and fall between nine and 16 meters twice day. In some places the tides recede more than five km from shore, allowing visitors to walk on and explore the ocean floor. The period between high and low tide is approximately six hours, and the best way to experience the drastic change in the landscape is to visit the same place during both high and low tides.''There are many coastal communities along both sides of the bay, but one of the most beautiful spots is Fundy National Park, situated near the small coastal town of Alma, New Brunswick. Fundy National Park encompasses 206 square km. There are 100 km of hiking trails, beautiful cascading waterfalls, and three front-country campgrounds with more than 550 campsites. Yurts and cabins are also available for those who don’t want to rough it. Nearby Alma has several lodging options, along with a myriad of restaurants, bars, and gift shops. We loved our meal at An Octopus’ Garden, which features fresh seafood and farm-to-table fare.''-Backroad Ramblers''Things to do in Canada''• Québec''Sleep in an Ice Hotel''In true winter wonderland fashion,''Hôtel de Glace''is built from scratch each year and is around for just three short months. Hôtel de Glace is North America’s''only''ice hotel and located just outside downtown Québec City. The ice hotel is constructed from 30,000+ tons of snow and ice and consists of overnight sleeping rooms and suites, a handful of ice bars, ice chapel, indoor and outdoor ice slides, and arctic spas.''Spending the night at Hôtel de Glace is a''cool''experience not to be missed. They offer both simple rooms and elaborately carved suites, thermal sleeping gear and comfortable beds, sauna, and spa access, and in-room fireplaces (believe it or not). Though they promise comfort and warmth, the price of your room also includes a room at a nearby hotel for use of the showers and as a backup plan in case you get too chilly.''-My Wanderlusty Life''Celebrate Gay Pride in Montreal''One of our favorite experiences from our travels in Canada was attending the''gay pride festival in Montreal.''It takes place in August when the weather is warm, the entire city is outside, and everyone is in great spirits.''We loved Montreal gay pride because the entire city gets involved, both gay and straight and has a genuine pride in celebrating their LGBTQ community. As a gay couple, we felt completely welcome at the parade by everyone. It was very humbling. The icing on the cake is that the country’s leaders were all here marching alongside us in the parade – Justin Trudeau the Prime Minister of Canada, Philippe Couillard the Premier of Quebec, Valérie Plante the Mayor of Montreal, and in addition, Leo Varadkar, the Taoiseach (Prime Minister) of the Republic of Ireland.''-Nomadic Boys''Hike Mont Royal''Montreal is named so for the beautiful small mountain in the heart of the city named Mont Royal. Without even leaving the city center, you can hike to the top of the 764-foot “mountain” in the middle of the Parc du Mont-Royal, which takes about 45 minutes each way. What few people know is that the''Parc du Mont-Royal''was actually designed by the same person who designed''New York’s Central Park!''From the top of Mont Royal, you have stunning views of downtown Montreal. I’ve been up twice, in spring and fall, and it’s been beautiful each time. In the fall, the orange foliage frames the city views, and in the spring, a sea of tulips bloom outside the chalet at the primary looking point, called the Kondiaronk Belvedere. In the winter the area is a popular destination for sledders and cross-country skiers.''During your stay in Montreal and after hiking Mont Royal, be sure to sample the local cuisine and stay in a cool neighborhood. My favorite is Le Plateau, which has tons of ethnic restaurants and great bars.''-Eternal Arrival''Have a ski holiday in Mont Tremblant''One of the best things to do in Canda in the winter is go''skiing or snowboarding!''We had spent the majority of our''winter in Europe''and seen plenty of charming ski villages, but''Mont Tremblant had to be one of the prettiest ski resorts yet''. It has all the\xa0European ambiance and charm, except on the North American continent. The village itself is compact and designed to be car-free, almost everything is a short five-minute walk.''From the village center, visitors have access to the beautiful mountain, trails, restaurants, shops, an ice skating rink, and restaurants. As Mont Tremblant is surrounded by the lovely Laurentians there is no shortage of winter activities to enjoy – including amazing skiing and snowboarding. We spent two full days navigating the mountain here on our snowboards and found it to be well designed for families, couples, or even a friends trip! After we left, we knew that Mont Tremblant is one of the best places in Canada for a winter vacation!''– The World Pursuit''Follow the lighthouses in the St. Lawrence Seaway''One of the best things to do in Canada is following the''Lighthouse Trail''to the iconic Percé Rock found in Quebec Maritime. The breathtaking natural beauty which you will find on the Gaspé peninsula is dotted by lighthouses. All looking to guide ships in from the wild Atlantic into the St. Lawrence Seaway (and eventually to the port cities of Quebec, Montreal, Kingston, and Toronto), these beacons of light are 40 in total!''Of these 40, 18 offer tourism activities or services to the public. Explore beautiful all-wood structures, to monolithic metal towers, each with a unique design and story. \xa0For something really fun, you can stay overnight in the Île Verte Lighthouse. The unique lighthouse we found is the mushroom-shaped Le Prince Lighthouse that stoically guards the entrance to the seaway.''-Downshifting Pro''Things to do in Canada''•''Nunavut''Walk on an Ice Flo''In Nunavut, you are not only allowed to stand on floating ice, but you are encouraged! If you love adventure, the prospect of standing on a piece of ice in the Arctic ocean at a depth of 400 feet floating on water that can kill you in minutes will surely excite! When traveling to Nunavut to walk on Ice Flows, make sure you go with an experienced local guide for safety!''Your guide will show you\xa0how to pick out the perfect pieces of ice to safely stand on, discuss the depth of the ice itself [some go 20-30 feet down into the water], and allow you to drink from pure-as-can-be wells of literal ice water that had collected on the ice piece.\xa0Standing on a piece of ice with no boat nearby on the Arctic Ocean is an experience you won’t soon forget!''To get to Nunavut, you may need to take between 2-4 flights, depending on how remote you want to get! Nunavut is an Arctic territory so you will either be camping out on the land or staying at a local inn and eating locally made food! There aren’t many options for food or lodging but that is part of the remote charm''Nunavut has to offer!''-Follow Me Away''Try Ice Fishing''Ice-fishing in the Canadian Arctic territory of Nunavut is a surreal, bucket list experience and a crazy fun thing to do in Canada.\xa0 Your trip will start from the moment you get dressed and ready for the Arctic elements.\xa0 Once you head out onto the land, the temperature drops drastically so you want to be prepared with lots of layers of warm clothes.\xa0 From there expect to ride out on a qamutiq, a large Inuit sled pulled by a snowmobile to the frozen lakes or ocean.''Even in spring, holes for ice fishing need to be drilled 8 feet deep to reach the water. As you sit fishing you have a chance to take in the white barren Arctic landscape, far away from any distractions.\xa0 Lucky fishermen may catch an Arctic char or trout.\xa0 Your guide will help you stay warm with cups of tea and hot bannock bread.\xa0 The easiest place to access Nunavut is via the''capital Iqaluit,''but you can also fly into communities like Cambridge Bay or Rankin Inlet.''-5 Lost Travel''Things to do in Canada''•''Yukon''View wildlife in the Yukon Wildlife Preserve''Situated only 25 minutes north of the Yukon capital of Whitehorse, the''Yukon Wildlife Preserve''offers visitors a chance to see Yukon wildlife in its natural habitat. Encompassing more than 700 acres, the organization houses over 13 species of Northern Canadian mammal, including the arctic fox, muskoxen, thinhorn sheep, and moose, to name a few. The preserve operates as a non-profit organization, which participates in conservation, rehabilitation, and education.''We visited the preserve at the''end of October,''when winter had just made an appearance and covered the area in a beautiful blanket of snow. You can take a guided tour, or walk around the preserve on your own, like we did. After your visit, I would recommend a trip to the Takhini Hot Pools, which are only a 5 minute from the preserve. The natural pools give you a chance to relax your muscles after your walk.''-Non-Stop Destination''Land on a glacier''When you are in the Yukon'', one of the best things to do is a flightseeing trip in a small plane over\xa0Kluane National Park.\xa0Kluane National Park is the home to the largest non-polar ice fields in the world. The flight starts from a small airfield near\xa0Kluane Lake and follows the river up into the mountains and then over rivers of ice.''Lateral moraines are stripes of dirt and rock that run the length of the glaciers show you where different glaciers combined. If you are very lucky and weather permits you can land on the Hubbard Glacier on the border between the Yukon and Alaska and get out and walk on a glacier.''-Amateur Traveler''Have a dog sled adventure''A dog sledding adventure is a fantastic way to experience the life of a musher and their canine crew. Alaskan huskies are bred to be marathon runners and to compete in endurance races such as the famous annual Iditarod competition. At summer training camps in the Yukon, visitors can meet the dogs close up and take a dog sled ride through their training trails.''Alaskan huskies are smaller than you expect from a dog breed to race, and are a mixed breed combining Siberian Husky, greyhound, vizla and mastiff. Puppies are often bred to coincide with summer visitors to the Yukon. As it’s a very remote part of the world, visitors play an important part in the dogs’ human socialization, which is crucial when the dogs are taken to more populated areas for racing. While there are plenty of dog mushing training camps than can be found in the''Yukon'', we highly enjoyed our visit to Tutshi Lake Musher’s Camp.''-Christine Knight''Things to do in Canada''•''Newfoundland and Labrador''Birdwatch\xa0over 350 species of birds''Did you know that Newfoundland and Labrador is the bird watching capital of North America? With over 29,000 kilometers of coastline, 35 million seabirds nest around the shores here. Gannets, storm petrels, black legged kittiwakes, common murres, and even puffins can be seen making a messy and load racket.''Witless Bay Ecological Reserve and Cape St. Mary’s Ecological Reserve are two great places to get our your bird books and marvel at our winged friends. They say you don’t even need binoculars as the birds are so close. Watch out for the birds of prey! 800 bald eagles nest on the shores of Newfoundland and Labrador making it one of the largest populations in North America!''-The World Pursuit''See where Amelia Earhart made history''On May 20th of 1932, the legendary''Amelia Earhart''left a small airfield in Harbor Grace, Newfoundland. 15 hours later she landed in''Northern Ireland'', alone and accomplished. She was the first woman to fly solo nonstop across the Atlantic. Early aviators would often start their trans-Atlantic flight in Newfoundland as it’s one of the closest places in North America that you can get.''Nowadays you can visit this iconic landmark and see the''Spirit of Harbour Grace''and a statue of Amelia Earhart right where she took off.''We know this is just a teaser of the best things to do in Canada. The country is huge and jam-packed with awesome activities. So get out there and start exploring!''Plan Your Trip to Canada:''Stay:''We stayed at a number of apartments throughout our Canadian road trip. We love to cook when we travel so full apartments work well for us. Read more about''choosing a good Airbnb here''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay with Airbnb!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Please consider purchasing a''travel water bottle''before your trip! We hate to see one time use plastic bottles ending up in the ocean. We found the tap water in Canada fine to drink, but when we want extra assurance we use the''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''Read Next:''Ski Sun Peaks Resort • The Perfect Canadian Winter Destination''The Best Winter Packing List for Europe and Beyond''Five Ski Resorts in the Canadian Rockies You Haven’t Heard About''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''April 11, 2018''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''April 6, 2018''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Natasha''Sun Peaks in British Columbia may be one of our favorite ski resorts in North America. There is something to offer every level of skier, snowboarder, or vacationer. When it comes to the ski resort the trails are well laid out and easy to navigate with just about every run ending at the resort village.''When we arrived at Sun Peaks we were not sure what to expect from Canada’s second biggest ski area. It had been a long drive from the''Kootenay’s and the Powder Highway and''we were relieved with smiles when we pulled into the resort village. The whole town was alight and the rooftops were covered with fresh piles of snow. Sun Peaks village is modeled after a Bavarian village making it wonderfully charming during the winter season.''We were able to pull right up to our hotel and unload our snowboards right in our hotel’s underground ski room – convenience\xa0at its best. There are a number of hotels, lodges, and vacation homes that offer ski-in-ski-out accommodation which can be tough to come by with many Canadian ski resorts.''Long story short – Sun Peaks is arguably the best full-service resort in Canada. There are plenty of reasons why the ski resort makes for one of the best options for those looking for a carefree and laid back ski holiday. It might not be a die-hard\xa0skiers or riders mecca, but for just about everyone else it hits all the right notes. Here’s why we loved our holiday at''Sun Peaks.''Why Choose to Ski at Sun Peaks?''The charming Sun Peaks ski village''With a number of ski-in-ski-out accommodation options all within the ski village, it makes for the perfect escape without ever having to step foot into a car. We’ve been to a number of ski resorts and villages and Sun Peaks is easily one of our favorites because of it’s ease. The resort has a main pedestrian/ski street that links many of the hotels, shops, and restaurants. It’s all walkable, safe, and convenient. There is even a small grocery store! (Although it’s a bit overpriced, so I would recommend picking up your groceries in nearby Kamloops).''You can literally wake up and ski right from your hotel to the lifts. At any time during the day, it’s easy to hit up a village restaurant, shop, coffee shop, or bar – pretty sweet. We spent a lot of time hanging around the village and the Sun Peaks community keeps it lively with events going on every night. If you’re looking for some apres-ski drinks we highly recommend the Voyageur Bistro.''Family-friendly terrain''The trails at Sun Peaks ski resort are well laid out and pretty easy to navigate with almost all runs leading back to the base village. It makes for easy navigating and it is almost impossible to get lost. Especially''in comparison to Switzerland''and Austria where skiers and boarders can easily end up in another village or country if they don’t pay attention.''We learned that at the top of any chairlift at Sun Peaks there is always a wide beginner run down, so you never have to worry about accidentally getting in over your head. On “Five Mile,” you can ride from the top of Mt Tod. for five miles winding back and forth through the trees. The run is the longest at Sun Peaks and is a great cruiser for any skill level. Also, unless you go off-piste or in glades you’re never in any serious danger like at Whistler or Lake Louise. So if you are skiing with children you will feel comfortable letting them run loose here!''Expert terrain''I may have mentioned that the resort doesn’t serve as a mecca for ski bums, but that doesn’t mean the ski runs aren’t notable. There are a number of challenging pistes, bowls, glades, and a seriously extreme terrain park that has plenty to offer expert and advanced ability levels.''A highlight for any rider or skier is Gil’s. It’s an inbounds area only accessible via a short ridge hike, but consistently offers quiet tree riding with deep powder stashes. If you’ve seen a glossy ad of a skier ripping past some trees this is the spot. For years it was slackcountry\xa0and unpatrolled, but starting in 2014/2015 the resort opened it up to resort patrons. Now it’s the most consistent way to find amazing powder and zip past some trees. It’s always best to remember that in off-piste areas you should always ski with a partner and a brain.''Other great areas for advanced skiers and riders are the Crystal Bowl, Kookamungas, and Chute in the Mt. Tod ski area. We also found amazing runs with deep snow and a steep pitch on Static Cling and In Tatters off Mt. Morrisey. The Mt. Morrisey area was easily our favorite on the entire mountain as it was quiet and provided great tree runs.''Intermediate terrain''Mt Morrisey is sure to be a hit with intermediate and advanced riders looking to rip through some groomed runs. The pistes here are the latest additions to the mountain and designed to maximize the beauty of the area. The runs are mainly groomed pistes that snake back and forth between pine trees. The effect provides the feeling of cruising through a glade without the difficulty or danger. Switchbacks and groom lines also provide for fun hits to jump and practice a bit of freeride style.''The greatest part of the mountain is the lack of a crowd and good snow quality. We hit the section on a weekend and found absolutely no lift line for 1,300 feet of vertical and a high-speed lift. For vertical fiends, you can clock in some serious feet here in one afternoon we managed around 20 runs down.''There are''NO''lines''Mt. Morrisey is not an anomaly, as even the more crowded base area is known for short or no lines. Unlike many of the more popular resorts in Colorado, Canada, or California you’ll have plenty of time to enjoy what you came to do, ski. One of the main reasons Sun Peaks likely has no lines is it being removed from any major cities. You won’t find many day-trippers here except the neighboring town of Kamloops.''We haven’t been to Whistler, which is often regarded as Canada’s top ski resort, but have heard the lines and crowd there can get insane. So Sun Peaks is a nice alternative.''There are awesome winter activities''Not everyone wants to spend every waking minute on the slope. Even I do not want to spend every day on the slope despite dreaming of snow in my sleep. For those who would like to give their legs a rest or would prefer not to spend their time strapped into skis or a snowboard, Sun Peaks has plenty of winter activities. Guests can go first tracks, ice skating, ice fishing, snoeshowing, dog sledding, tubing, fat biking, and more activities. If you want to read more about the activities at Sun Peaks check out their''website''. With three days of riding planned, we were also able to sneak in a few awesome activities that anyone would love!''Dog sledding is a quintessential winter experience and will easily be a highlight of any vacation. It’s been a highlight of our winter. Bundling up in a sled as a team of dogs rushes through the woods is sensational. Or if you feel like doing it yourself, you can even be a musher! We went with Mountain Man Adventures, an experienced and small family operation just near the ski hill. You can book a dog sled tour with the activities desk in the village,''or online''.''Another great thing to check out is the Moonlight Snowshoe and S’mores tour. We met in the base village shortly after nightfall before we set off onto winter trails on snowshoes. At the end of a short walk, we sat down to a warm fire, apple cider, and some s’mores. On our tour, we were joined by a couple of Kiwis and Brits so it was fun sharing a slice of North American culture with them. On a clear night be sure to look up and enjoy an amazing starry night sky!''Ski-in/ski-out''The more we ride and ski the more we come to appreciate\xa0the slopeside accommodation. We stayed at Nancy Greene’s Cahilty Hotel & Suites that has one bedroom and two bedroom apartments with full kitchens right on the mountain. We’re vegetarians bordering on vegans so going out to eat can be tough sometimes. The ability to cook our own food not only saved us money but made dinner time much easier!''Affordable cost''What distinguishes many of the resorts in Canada to us are the costs. We’ve been to a number of resorts in Canada, Switzerland, and Colorado and the prices come in at a fraction of the cost. Accommodation costs for on-mountain rooms range from $100-$200 on average. Food costs are also affordable especially if you opt for self-catering and pick up groceries in Kamloops. There is the market in the center of town, but again, it’s limited and food costs come at a premium.''Lift tickets are much cheaper than many of the resorts in the U.S. but are about on par with several of the resorts elsewhere in Canada. They do still cost a bit more than the lift tickets in''Italy''or''Austria''where a ticket will set you back a cool €50 ($61 USD). At the time of writing window sale lift tickets at Sun Peaks are as follows:''Adult'': $95 CAD ($74 USD)''Senior'': $76 CAD ($59 USD)''Youth'': $76 CAD ($59 USD)''Get Your Lift Tickets!''Convenience''Planning a holiday in Sun Peaks is pretty painless with a number of flight options operating out of the nearby Kamloops airport. Also, the resort is a five hour drive to the popular''Whistler-Blackcomb'', due to this many people choose to visit both resorts on their ski vacation. A number of operators offer full packages with rentals, lift-tickets, transfers, and accommodation between the two resorts.''Read Next:''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''Amazing Mont Tremblant Activities You Should Definitely Experience''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''Tips to the Perfect Austrian Ski Holiday in Vorarlberg''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''April 11, 2018''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''April 6, 2018''Ski Sun Peaks Resort • The Perfect Canadian Winter Destination''was last modified:''April 5th, 2018''by''Natasha''It started while on the beaches of Greece surrounded by plastic waste. Then we traveled to truly remote destinations like Mozambique and Seychelles; however, the plastic followed us. While the tourists may have remained in Greece the plastic waste followed us.''We are all guilty of littering at some point, even if not intentionally. However, we don’t have to stand by and let the world go to crap, there are measures we can take to become environmentally friendly travelers!\xa0Read on for a great list of eco-friendly products to help you go green on your travels. Most of these products are here to help reduce your waste and make simple purchase decisions.''What is the importance of Eco-Friendly products?''We’re destroying the earth and it’s something that can be prevented.''We can all take small steps toward reducing our environmental footprint. Even as travelers we use a plethora of eco-friendly products that can make a huge difference. When it comes to taking green initiatives a great place to start is to reduce waste.\xa0It is said that by 2050 the amount of plastic in the ocean will outweigh the fish in the ocean – that statistic is shocking. We all need to replace simple items and products we use in our everyday lives to have a large impact.''Great Eco-Friendly Products''Reusable Bamboo Utensil''Plastic utensils are not only terrible for the environment, but they are terrible for you too! Did you know that only 6% of all plastic can be recycled in the US? That’s a terrible number, and I feel that if more people knew that, they would cut back on their plastic consumption and strive to become more eco-friendly.''On top of that, most plastic silverware is made with BPA, a chemical that is absolutely terrible for your health (scientists have found\xa0links to cancer). The first step towards more sustainable lifestyles and travel is with reusable utensils. That’s why we were so excited when we found the''To-Go Ware RePEaT Reusable Bamboo Utensil''!''This silverware is heat resistant, small, and lightweight making it the perfect environmentally friendly travel accessory. The\xa0product has saved us during those random times when we desperately need a spoon or fork to eat!''Check the prices here!''Bamboo Drinking Straw''I once''saw this video''and practically broke down in tears. Marine life everywhere is threatened because of our plastic consumption. For some reason every bartender, barista, and restaurant think that we need a plastic straw for our drinks.''The reality is that we use these little things once and then they go right into the landfill. That’s where these''bamboo drinking straws''can come to the rescue. They are reusable and look cute in any drink.''They are also hand crafted by artisans in Bali using rare Bali mountain bamboo. Bonus! Drink in style while knowing you are supporting a small business.''Check the prices here!''MPOWERD Luci Outdoor Solar Lantern''We love our to travel with a solar-powered lamp! We just got it a week ago and have already had to use it a number of times when we were low on light. This little device is a solar-powered lamp.''It can be used on a table, hung around your neck, or attached to a bicycle. Five hours of sunlight will yield seven hours of bright illumination, and 24 hours of low illumination.''Check the prices here!''The Scrubba''Washing your clothes while traveling is never fun. That’s why we were super''pumped to get the Scrubba.''A tiny and lightweight mobile laundry machine. Just put your dirty clothes in the bag, add water and soap, seal and scrub away. Now you can literally wash your clothes anywhere there is water.''The best part? The Scrubba only uses 3-6 liters per wash. The Scrubba boasts one of the highest price tags on this list, which may make you wonder “Is being eco-friendly expensive?”''Although, the Scrubba retails for just around $50, think about how much money washing your clothes can cost in a hostel, hotel, or laundromat. We usually pay about $5 per load. So you will easily make your money back after just 10 loads of wash. Most importantly this eco-friendly product uses less water than a commercial washing machine and no energy.''Check the prices here!''Lifestraw Go''We have raved about our Lifestraw Go’s in''past posts and for good reason''! This water bottle is extremely durable, BPA free, and lets us fill up in anywhere in the world because of the filter inside. The filter inside lasts for 1000 liters and will filter out 99.9999% of waterborne bacteria and 99.9% of waterborne protozoa.''For each Lifestraw Go that is purchased Lifestraw provides one child in a developing nation with safe drinking water for a year. I can’t even count the amount of money and plastic bottles we have saved because of this bottle. \xa0Purchasing a reusable water bottle has to be one of the easiest ways to become eco-friendly. If you’re looking to go more in-depth we''detail our favorite water bottles''.''Check the prices here!''Collapsible Tupperware''Instead of always getting take food in styrofoam or plastic container. Opt for some''Prepworks Tupperware containers''. These things pack up nice and small and really come in handy for long travel days when you don’t have easy access to food. These c''ollapsible food storage containers''are''BPA free, lead, and phthalates free as well.''Check the prices here!''Reusable Snack Bags''You know where you can find those little Ziploc bags to put your lunch time sandwiches in outside of the US? Nowhere. Trust me they are quite impossible to find abroad. Reusable snack bags come in incredibly handy when traveling.''These little snack bags''are''Lead-free, PVC free, BPA free, phthalates free, and vinyl free. Score!''Check the prices here!''GoToob Travel Bottle''Don’t lug around a full sized body wash container, put liquids in little travel bottles instead!''GoToob bottles''are made with durable silicon that are food safe and airplane carry-on approved. Of course, they are 100% BPA free.''Check the prices here!''Organic Bamboo Compressed Towels''You never knew when you will need to dry off. These things have come in so useful while traveling in Africa, when rainstorms are a bit…unpredictable. These towels may look tiny, but they actually open up to a 12″ x 20″ unscented towel when dampened.''I have really sensitive skin, so I cringe when I get a stiff towel. Thankfully,''these bamboo towels''are ultra soft and are natural and compostable.''Check the prices here!''J.R. Liggett’s Solid Shampoo''We love eco-friendly products! They make the most perfect environmentally friendly bathroom accessories. Just walking into their store gives us happy vibes for days to come. \xa0They use natural and organic ingredients with no packaging on their products. They are 100% vegan and biodegradable. We love dry shampoo and find that with care it lasts much longer than traditional shampoo made from chemicals. Since, they’re biodegradable and lightweight they’d be perfect for camping!''Check the prices here!''Reusable Grocery Bag Set''In today’s day and age, I feel like this is kind of a duh eco-friendly product. If you could help reduce waste on the planet by simply bringing your own bag to the grocery store would you? Of course! These bags are cute, reusable, and pack up nicely! These aren’t just good for being eco-friendly at home either, but for traveling with just about anything in general!''Check the prices here!''Wooden Sunglasses and Watches''I just recently found out about wooden and bamboo accessories, but I am now in love. I began looking a few months ago because I wanted sunglasses that weren’t completely made of plastic. What I found was a pair of amazing and durable sunglasses made out of natural wood hand made in San Fransico. There are many different types of wood and bamboo sunglasses out there, but''Treehut''is my favorite since their products really speak quality. We were so happy with the sunglasses we went ahead and converted to wood watches too and have never looked back!''Check the prices here!''Organic Q-Tips''Some may say Q tips are bad for you, but personally, I can’t go one day without cleaning out my ears. I try to opt for''organic Q-tips''when traveling and at home. Not only are they good for the environment, but they are also sturdier and better quality than your typical ear swap. These particular cotton swabs are disposable, biodegradable, organic, and all natural bamboo!''Check the prices here!''Bamboo Toothbrush''These toothbrushes are the best (''seriously, check the reviews!)''. These bamboo toothbrushes are recyclable along with all their packaging. The bamboo ensures they are just as strong as plastic toothbrushes and at about $3 a toothbrush they are about the same price as your conventional toothbrush. So why not buy these and help the environment? Even the bristles are BPA free so you won’t have to stick all those toxins in your mouth!''These are one of my favorite eco friendly products not only for traveling but for everyday life in general.''Check the prices here!''Solar Phone Charger''With this''waterproof and dustproof solar panel charger'', you will be able to stay charged and save energy at the same time. \xa0This was perfect for our year long road trip across Africa. When you’re camping or out in the wilderness as I’m sure you are aware, there are no outlets.''This solar phone charger can handle charging my phone at least three times before I have to throw it in the sun again. Sometimes we even use it to charge two phones at once!''It took me awhile to invest in one of these bad boys, but now my camping/outdoor/adventure life has never been the same!''Check the prices here!''The human race has to decide what kind of world we want to live in and change our ways when we are able. \xa0What do you think of this list of eco-friendly\xa0products for traveling?''Read Next:''Tips For Eco Friendly Travel''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''The Ultimate Mozambique Travel Guide: All You Need to Know''Where are the Seychelles? The Islands We Now Dream About''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Natasha''I’ve poured hours of time into research for the best women’s travel shoes. After trying on more shoes than I care to admit to help with my problematic feet, it’s safe to say I have generated an extensive list of footwear.''Shoes are arguably the most important item to consider when packing for your travels. A good pair of shoes for travel may not be the most exciting thing in a suitcase, but comfortable feet can make or break your day.''We walk a lot\xa0when we travel.''Long walks allow you to immerse\xa0yourself in new destinations not to mention it’s healthier. Given modern work trends, we could all stand to walk a bit more.''It may seem simple, but there are a lot of factors that go into a good pair of shoes for travel. These shoes are all picked with optimal comfort in mind, some may not be the most stylish women’s travel shoes, but they are some of the best footwear on the market.''These are my favorite women’s travel shoes for walking all day.''The Best Travel Shoes for Women''Most Comfortable Travel (and Hiking) Shoe''These aren’t the poshest looking shoes in the world, but they aren’t the ugliest either. After trying on close to 30 pairs of different shoes, the''Moab Ventilator shoe''is what I ultimately went with and top this list as the best travel shoe. The main reason being that these are hiking shoes. However, I can wear them around just like I would my Nike trainers and they don’t look ridiculous.''These shoes are built tough, built to last, and are just in general good women’s travel shoes. I have probably put over 500 miles and they got me through a year of bush walking in Africa – I still haven’t thrown them out. They are well padded, extremely comfortable, and for about a $20 different you can get the Gortex version (waterproof).''I also have wide feet and a slew of other foot problems and I can easily walk all day in these shoes through all different terrains. Seriously Moab Ventilator, you are some of the best women’s walking shoes for ladies that love the outdoors.''Get them now''Best Travel Sneaker''Salomon makes some great products that I have come to really love. The''Ellipse GTX''are one of the top rated women’s travel shoes on the market. They have a trail runner design making them easy to go for a jog in.''The shoes are comfortable and extremely light. It makes them easy to pack into a bag when you’re on the go. The shoes are waterproof and provide good traction. Traction doesn’t always sound important, but believe me, after a couple slips and tumbles. You’ll come to realize shoes with good traction are valuable.''Get them now''Cutest Walking Shoe''The Aerosole''is one of the best women’s shoes for travel in Europe. They are sleek, stylish, comfortable, and will look good on''even the streets of Milan''. They have suede memory foam insoles and\xa0rubber soles for traction. The best part? They slip on in a flash and the heel won’t bend because of it! From skirts to pants these shoes\xa0are stylish walking shoes for travel.''Get them now''Most Comfortable Walking Sandals''I’m sorry,''but Teva’s''have to be the most comfortable women’s travel shoes on the planet. Sure, they may look a little nerdy and Taylor Swift may laugh at you. But who will be laughing when Tswift is flat on her face from falling while walking on a stone path? You, that’s who, because you will be wearing the best travel sandals there is (just kidding Tswift, no bad blood please). Seriously though Teva’s have long been regarded as a top rated women’s travel shoe and for good reason. They are comfortable, durable, and come in hundreds of different styles.''Get them now''Best Lightweight Walking Shoe''Casual, classic, and a top rated\xa0lightweight women’s travel shoes. Toms have been around for years and I’m sure\xa0they have been in every country in the world given how much I see them worn by other travelers.''Toms are great for all types of vacations''. Beach vacations, city vacations, and even romantic vacations prove that Toms can be worn. They weigh virtually nothing and pack up well. The shoes are simple and are definitely stylish walking shoes for travel. Besides all this the best part about Toms is that they are still a One for One company, meaning for every pair of shoes bought they will donate a pair of shoes.''Get them now''Most Stylish Comfy Sandal''I have been a fan of crocs for years. I find them to be one of the best travel sandals for walking while still looking cute. Yes, I said cute. Crocs actually make\xa0some pretty cute women’s travel shoes. Seriously, I have had a few pairs now and have even worn them to the clubs.''Crocs are reasonably affordable'', are comfortable for a day of light walking, and they are completely waterproof. AND my mom does all of her garden work in them (Hi Mom!).''Get them now''Best Summer Walking Shoe''Leather. Imported. Rubber sole, and yoga chic? Sign me up! These slip on shoes are pure comfort while maintaining style. \xa0They are great for all day wear as well as slipping in your purse if you’re going out at night. I want just about every color of the''Ahnu Karma Shoe.''Get them now''Best Travel Flip Flop''I’m a total flip flop person\xa0and don’t believe any travel bag is completely packed until you throw a pair of flip flops in. I’ve had''Rainbow flip flops''for almost eight years now. In those eight years, I have only had''two''pairs of Rainbow flip flops and I only had to replace the first pair because it was stolen on a bus in Thailand. In my opinion, these are the\xa0best brand of flip flops ever. The sandals are made with premium leather, nylon threads, and are triple glued for optimal durability. Perhaps what makes these so great is the high arch in the midsole, this allows me to wear the sandals all day.''Get them now''Best City Walking Shoe''For a great, all-purpose travel shoe there is the''Merrell Rant''. This leather and canvas sneaker is one of the best shoes for walking all day. They are reasonably priced for a Merrell shoe and have been praised as the “most comfortable walking shoe ever.” They feature a cushioned sole with good support, but yet are stylish and light. The Rants are offered in a variety of different colors to suit every traveler’s style and I can’t stress how these shoes are 100% comfortable walking shoes for women.''Get them now''Most Fashionable Walking Shoe''Perfect to wear with leggings or skinny jeans, while still screaming fashionable.''These Clark boots''These Clark boots are made with a soft suede upper and twin back goring. These are slightly waterproof, and cover the ankle, and are just the most perfect stylish walking shoe for Europe. I love these shoes because I am short and the little heel gives me a height boost!''Get them now''Most Comfortable Flats for Walking''Flats are small and easy to pack up, so they make for great shoes to take while traveling.''Cole Haan''makes some darn\xa0comfy ballet flats for travel. These are made with leather and provide a synthetic sole, and are great for a night out on the town in a new city. Plainly speaking these shoes are excellent quality, have great sizing, and are simple, but beautiful shoes.''Get them now''Best Walking Shoes for Winter Travel''I traveled with these''Teva boots''for the entire winter season last year and loved them. Not only are the comfortable and durable, but they look nice with just about anything and can easily dress up a pair of leggings. These boots are waterproof, warm, and go up to a little below the knee. I’m guessing these boots will last me at least five to 10 years if I wear them every season, and now I have no reason to ever have to spend money on another pair of stylish winter boots. It’s not just me that loves them though –''check out the reviews on Amazon''!''Get them now''Best Shoe to Give You a Lift''If you’re looking for a nice all around sandals that you can wear to all functions this shoe by B.O.C is ideal. I love''B.O.C sandals''for their comfort, they have never let me down. Not only is this shoe comfortable, but it gives you a 3/4″ lift. The sandal is secured by a back zipper that doesn’t rub against your ankle and cause discomfort.''Get them now''Best Lightweight Tennis Shoes''Le Mouton Merino Wool Lightweight Unisex Shoes''are made of top quality\xa0Merino wool and polyester blend. The merino wool makes these shoes breathable,\xa0offering temperature-regulation properties to keep you cool in the summer and warm in the winter. Many people choose to wear these shoes without socks as the natural antibacterial fiber material protects against odor. You can also throw these shoes right in the washer when you feel it’s time. They come in a variety of colors, but I would recommend black or grey so they go with everything in your travel suitcase.''Get them now''Best Moccasins for Travel''If you’re in the market for moccasins you really can’t go wrong with''UGGS''. This Australian brand has been around for a long time and are well known in creating quality shoes. These Moccasins are cute, made of leather, and fully lined with pure wool. They are a bit expensive, but if you take good care of them they should last you for a couple fall and winter seasons.''Get them now''How to Travel With Your Shoes''I always travel with shoes in a separate part of my luggage. I don’t want the dust and dirt from the street to get on my clothes. If I’m traveling with a suitcase I will place my shoes in either a reusable bag or a packing cube and place them sole up in the bottom of my bag. My travel shoes never go next to my best outfits, just in case they do happen to get dirt everywhere.''If I am on a backpacking trip I will still wrap my shoes in a reusable bag and place them at the bottom of the backpack. If they are travel flip flops or rugged tennis shoes I will either wrap them by their shoelaces on the outside of the bag or place them on the side holders. Just watch out for theft if you leave your bag!''There are always at least three pairs of shoes in my bag, but sometimes more depending on where I am traveling and the season.''Tennis shoes:''For working out, hiking, and walking around all day.''Flip Flops:''No matter the season there is always a pair of flip flop in my bag. For dirty showers, walking outside your room for just five minutes, or beach time sandals are key.''Nice black everyday shoes:''So I don’t look like a bum everywhere we go.''What are your favorite women’s travel shoes? Any that you find comfortable, stylish, and good for walking I would be happy to add to this list!''You May Also Like:''Contraceptives while Backpacking the World''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''I Want to Travel the World: 50 Memories in 50 Countries''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The 15 Best Travel Shoes for Women (2018 Edition)''was last modified:''April 16th, 2018''by''Natasha''It’s tough to argue that some of the best ski\xa0resorts in North America lie in Western Canada. We spent the coldest month of the year exploring the resorts along the Candian Rockies and Purcells. Your next Canadian ski holiday will never be the same after taking a stab at some of these awesome destinations.''Amazing Canadian Ski Resorts''Nakiska Ski Area''This was our first introduction to the Canadian Rockies and we are happy we made the stop. Many people skip over Nakiska for it’s bigger and more intimidating counterparts of Lake Louise and Banff Sunshine. While the surrounding region of Kananaskis may not be as world-renowned as Banff, it is every bit as stunning and with far less tourism. To get to Nakiska you will most likely start in Calgary, only an hours drive away. The drive into Kananaskis Country instantly makes you feel small as the Canadian Rockies making you even forget you were just in a major city.''Nakiska was originally built for the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary. Nineties babies may remember those Olympics from the movie Cool Runnings, about the first Jamaican bobsled team. Nakiska is easy to digest ski resort that is popular with residents day tripping from Calgary. It may not pull in the international visitors like some resorts, but its small feel is perfect for families looking for a low key vacation. We visited over the weekend, with snowfall, and still felt as if we had the resort to ourselves.''We had a blast at Nakiska as the snow continued\xa0to fall leaving the slopes in great condition. While it may not have been enough for a powder day it left the pistes with a great base, and the large gladed with soft moguls and pockets of powder.\xa0 It’s typically quiet during the week as Calgarians have to work and most travelers head to Lake Louise and Banff Sunshine. We particularly loved their “Monster Glades” and found deep snow turns, soft moguls, and beautiful snow trees. It’s probably a good idea to''compare travel insurance plans''if you’re skiing between trees.''We stayed at the only hotel in the area, Delta Hotel Kananaskis. We got lucky as my sister is a Marriott employee and we were able to score a sweet deal on the room there. The resort is family oriented and they’re getting ready to open up a massive new nordic\xa0inspired spa. Just a heads up they also have the only food options in the area unless you want to make the drive to Canmore (45 minutes away). We hadn’t prepared for that and wound up eating expensive resort food for the weekend.''Rooms at the''Delta Kananaskis Hotel''start at $200/night.''Single-day lift tickets for Nakiska cost $84.95,''but if you pre-purchase you will be able to get a deal.''We found their on-mountain food to be reasonably priced.''Kicking Horse Mountain Resort''British Columbia is well known for its legendary ski resorts and Kicking Horse is one that consistently makes the list. The mountain used to be serviced for heli-skiing only, but with the new addition of a massive gondola a world of terrain has opened up to everyone. This Canadian ski resort is no beginners mountain with some crazy double black diamond cutes and bowls.''Over half the runs on the mountain are either rated as black or double black and it’s well known for being an advanced and expert riders mountain. What makes the mountain even better is its location on the''Powder Highway''and being known for getting epic snow dumps and being the ‘Champagne Powder Capital of Canada’.''However, with a gnarly mountain and little snowmaking and grooming capabilities, the mountain is prone to the weather. Hit it on a wrong day and you may be met with bulletproof ice and moguls unless you head to the more difficult to access steep terrain. This is unfortunately what happened to us, but if you catch it on a powder day you’ll find untouched tracks and deep powder if you don’t mind waiting in the one gondola line. While crowds are far from what we witnessed we have heard the legendary terrain draws a crowd on a powder day.''Kicking Horse certainly lived up to its reputation of humbling riders as we were met with -30C temperatures and hard conditions. Five days after the last snowfall I still found snow and soft moguls in the various shoots and bowls on the mountain. The resort best excels at generating fear, standing on top of or traversing along anyone of Kicking Horse’s ridges or bowls will be sure to send chills up your spine.''We stayed at an Airbnb''in Invermere and drove two hours in. If you can score an Airbnb in the Golden area that would be in much better proximity.''Single-day lift tickets for Kicking Horse cost $104.95,''but if you pre-purchase you will be able to get a deal.''Fernie Alpine Resort''Fernie has been named as one of the best ski towns in the world by countless sites and magazines, including the likes of National Geographic. It’s historically a mining town that was voted the “Best Little Town in BC,” and for good reason. Fernie actually turned out to be one of our''favorite spots in all of Canada''.''This resort in the Canadian Rockies is known for drowning in piles of snow. They see on average of nearly 9m of snow or about 29 ft a year.\xa0 The resort is spread out over 2,504 acres of terrain that includes five large bowls, ridges, and glades. To explore all that the mountain has to offer would take a season at least, with countless options for new lines.''Located in the British Columbia Rockies, Fernie Alpine Resort is the ski destination that powder-lovers dream of and is another expert mountain on this list. With 2,504 acres of terrain spread over five spectacular open alpine bowls, ridges and glades, there is an endless adventure on this mountain. The one saying you’ll hear a lot in Fernie is “steep and deep” and it’s well deserved.''The charming historical town of Fernie is only minutes from the base of the ski area. It is easy to see why with the old main street is well maintained and lined with ski shops, bars, restaurants, and coffee shops. We’ve been looking for a future home and because of the epic powder and cute town Fernie is definitely a contender.''The resort does have a few downsides, mainly that it is not a very kid or beginner friendly location. Beginners will also have a tough time finding long runs on the mountain. That’s not to say beginners and children aren’t welcome, but the mountain can indeed get dangerous and most of the fun stuff is at the top. The facilities at the resort could also use some updating. However, we weren’t too fussed with any of this because we were having so much fun in the powder. Also, it’s kinda in the middle of Nowhere meaning city day-trippers won’t flock in crowding the resort.''We stayed at''Fernie Slopeside Lodge,''which is ski in ski out at the base of Fernie Alpine Resort, Accommodation here was basic but affordable at $89 a night. You really can’t beat ski in/ski out accommodation – especially on a powder day.''Walk up lift tickets here will run you\xa0$104.95,''check Liftopia for a discount.''Panorama Mountain Resort''Panorama is a hidden secret in the Purcell Mountain range on the Powder Highway. It’s easily overlooked by many of the other full-service resorts in Canada and the U.S. When it comes to ski holidays people tend to think in the hive mind – as they all flock to the same resorts they have heard of. That means ski resorts in Colorado, California, and Vermont can become insanely busy and overpriced. Which is exactly what we didn’t find at Panorama. The Canadian ski resort boasts an impressive 4,000 feet of vertical, so your legs will be burning by the time you reach the bottom of the lift.''One of Panorama’s greatest strengths is the lack of a crowd. The ski village only sleeps around 3,000 people. This might sound like a lot, but with\xa02,847 acres of skiable terrain and 10 lifts, you’re almost guaranteed to never feel crowded on the mountain and even on weekends you won’t find lift lines. We had runs entirely to ourselves and loved every minute.''Expert skiers will find a wide range of challenging runs in an area accessible that was previously exclusive to heli-skiing. Now skiers can head to the Taynton bowl or the Extreme Dream Area, both great on a clear day. Unlike Fernie and Kicking Horse, Panorama is extremely family and beginner friendly with a number of green and blue runs. Our favorite part of Panorama resort is the two amazing terrain parks. Both the beginner and expert terrain park are accessible by lift, but not directly under the chairlift so everyone can watch you take jumps (yay!). We spent a whole day in their beginner terrain park practicing our skills.''We stayed at an Airbnb''in Invermere and drove a half hour to Panorama in each day. It was great to base ourselves in the town of Invermere as we had everything we could want close by.''One day lift tickets at Panorama cost $99,''but if you pre-purchase you will be able to get a deal.''Kimberley Alpine Resort''This may be one of our favorites in the area just because it is so unassuming. Unlike, Fernie, Kicking Horse, or Panorama there are no massive bowls, famed double blacks, or white knuckle glades to scare your ski pants off at Kimberley. Instead, it is a magical, simple, and quiet mountain that’s perfect for ripping a groomer or letting your kids have fun on their own without fearing they’ll fall off a cliff. A large part of it is due to its location across the valley in the Purcell mountain range, no it’s not located in the Canadian Rockies!''Being so far away from a major city, this mountain is seriously quiet. We spent two days here enjoying having many runs all to ourselves.\xa0 We also got really lucky and had a powder day here, which isn’t that surprising as Kimberley Alpine Resort is located on the Powder Highway.\xa0 Kimberley receives an average snowfall of 13 feet of snow in a season!''If you like gladed runs you’ll love Kimberley. The tree-lined runs off the Black Forest are a real treat. It was arguably our quietest time on pistes as we never saw another skier or snowboarder in our path. If you’re looking for our favorite run on the mountain it would be Vortex. Its a tree-lined run in the Black Forest area with a natural half pipe perfect for both snowboarders and skiers.''Kimberley also offers the longest night ski run in North America on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays.''The resort offers ski-in-ski-out accommodation with their''Trickle Creek Lodge''. We stayed here and it was among one of our favorite hotels in all of Canada. The lodge offers studios, one bedroom, and two bedrooms that are fully equipped. Our room on the mountain had a full kitchen, gas fireplace, and a balcony that looked out to the mountain.Walk to the chairlift = 1 minute.''Lift tickets here are $79.95 a day. Night skiing costs\xa0$32.95.''If you plan beforehand you can score a deal.''So what are you waiting for? Go get your powder on in these Canadian ski resorts!''Read Next:''Tips to the Perfect Austrian Ski Holiday in Vorarlberg''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''Amazing Mont Tremblant Activities You Should Definitely Experience''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''The Best Packable Down Jackets For Travel''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''April 11, 2018''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''April 6, 2018''Five Ski Resorts in the Canadian Rockies You Haven’t Heard About''was last modified:''April 24th, 2018''by''Cameron''The last leg of our recent European adventure ended with the perfect ski holiday in Switzerland. The famed 4 Vallées ski resort is known for having some of the best ski\xa0terrain in the world, so basing ourselves in Nendaz seemed like the ideal place to enjoy snowboarding in the alps. It’s tough to consider any ski holiday in Switzerland a bargain, especially in comparison to nearby resorts in Austria or Italy.''Ski resorts in Switzerland can be busy, big, expensive, and intimidating. It’s easy to understand why some travelers opt for more digestible resorts in North America. However, you shouldn’t let it all put you off because when it comes to ski and snowboard Switzerland packs a serious punch for fun, neverending runs above the treeline.''While they may not be considered cheap the resorts deliver almost everything you could want from a ski holiday. After all who doesn’t picture fresh tracks, swiss cheese fondue, wine, sleds, and''some alp''horn''. These tips are specific to our trip to Nendaz, but they can apply to any number of ski areas and resorts in Switzerland.''Tips for the Perfect Ski Holiday in Switzerland''Pick the right resort''Few resorts make as many “best of” lists as 4 Vallées. You’ve probably heard of the ski area by the association of the famous resort town of Verbier. The town draws a crowd and high prices while its neighbor Nendaz offers the same mountains at a lower cost. What separates the town from other resorts is that there is also a living community that 6,000 residents call home year round. The town of Nendaz lies close to the resorts of Siviez, Thyon, Veysonnaz, and Les Collons. All together 4 Vallées is the largest ski resort in Switzerland with a whopping 412km of ski runs!''The ski area is easily one of our favorites in the world. Almost all of the 412 km I mentioned is entirely groomed terrain which ensures a smooth ride. The 4 Vallées pistes are made up of 39% beginner, 44% intermediate, and 17% advanced. One of the most famous runs is from the ski areas highest peak, Mont Fort, and offers a massive 2,000m of vertical drop to tackle. Once you leave the pistes there are an ample amount of off-piste free ride zones and access to the backcountry. Those free ride opportunities draw in some of the world’s top ski and borders and many aspiring athletes.''Scattered across the ski domain are 93 ski lifts and dozens of on-mountain restaurants. It’s all a bit overwhelming, but it doesn’t come as a surprise that is praised as one of the best ski resorts in the world. We were happy to based in Nendaz as it provided a much more down to earth environment compared to the nearby town of Verbier. It has no massive restaurants, clubs, or hotels like neighboring Verbier. Alternatively, you’ll find it a bit more quiet, laid back, and charming. Don’t worry though – there is still a great apres scene, restaurants, and even an amazing spa.''Consider a\xa0 Swiss Travel Pass''Throughout our entire ski trip to\xa0Switzerland, we used public transport (trains and buses). The Alpine country is well known for its efficient and widespread public transport network. We found it to be a waste of money to have a rental car sitting in a parking lot while we went boarding every day. To only emphasize this point many of the ski villages are car-free and public transport such as buses and trains are often included in your lift ticket.''We used a Swiss Pass to travel around Switzerland and it gave us unlimited first-class transport on all public transport in Switzerland.\xa0 It alleviated a lot of stress when it came to planning our trip. The pass may not be for everyone as it runs concurrently so if you’re based in one village or town for your ski holiday it may be best to book a private transfer or buy individual train tickets.''Access to Nendaz is very easy with a regularly scheduled direct train from Geneva Airport to the nearby city of Sion. From the Sion train station, it’s one bus ride up to the town, about a three-hour journey in total from the airport. We ventured in from''nearby Zermatt''which also took us under three hours. Check out the''Swiss Federal Railways site''for help booking your train tickets and times (Google Maps public transport provides up to date travel information).''Score some sweet digs''It can be pretty difficult to find the perfect accommodation for a ski or snowboard trip in Switzerland. Those on a budget will have a near impossible time finding hostels in mountain villages. Even when you do find one it’s often €50 a dorm bed. From there you have a few options. Stay in one of Switzerland’s cities and commute to the mountain, find a guesthouse or hotel, or split self-catered accommodation with a group of friends or family.''We typically like to use self-catered accommodation and''Airbnb''to cook our own food and help save on costs. There are a range of self-catering apartments for rent in Swiss ski villages and it’s definitely the way to go if you are more than two.''However, being a couple we chose to go with a traditional guesthouse while on our Swiss ski vacation.\xa0 Hotel''Les Etagnes''is literally right off the piste and next to the gondola in Nendaz. Ski in ski out doesn’t get much better than this in Nendaz, and we really enjoyed our comfortable stay here. You can book most hotels on a “half board” meaning the hotel provides breakfast and dinner, which saves a lot of headache at night. Also – make sure to hit up Hôtel Nendaz 4 Vallées & Spa for an amazing spa experience after skiing.''Don’t hesitate to get off the slopes''We’re always looking for unique things to do in our free time that doesn’t involve strapping on a board. The superb terrain in Switzerland makes it easy to forget about the fact you’re in a foreign country. However, it’s always nice to delve a bit deeper into the culture you are in.''Some great activities include sledding, fondue, sunrise skiing, snowshoeing, dog sledding, ice skating, cross-country skiing, and even paragliding. Our personal favorite in Nendaz was learning to play the alphorn. If you’ve ever seen a Ricola commercial, you may want to check out a lesson for yourself! Nendaz is world famous for the alphorn and holds a massive international festival every summer with over a 150 alphorn players.''Try these two things''Fondue''There are a number of Swiss specialties, but no trip to Switzerland is complete without indulging in some world famous cheese fondue. Fondue is typically enjoyed in good company and spirits. The traditional pot is filled largely with melted cheese but can include other ingredients like garlic, brandy, white wine, or corn flour. Diners enjoy the fondue by dipping spears of bread into the dish, taking care to not lose their bread in the cheese.''Rosti''Rosti is a potato fried potato dish made with grated potatoes. The result is a lot like hashbrowns, but with a solid crispy exterior and soft interior. They’re super tasty and can be mixed with cheese, bacon, onion, or apple…it’s not exactly diet friendly. Originally the dish was eaten for breakfast to accompany fried eggs, but now you can enjoy any time of day. Personally, I love to have one for lunch with a\xa0Glühwein''Enjoy the apres ski scene''Apres is an important part of ski culture to many and it’s more or less a right of passage in the mountain world. Nendaz has two bars that draw a crowd for the Apres-ski scene. At Les Etagnes you can literally ski right into from the base of the mountain or head to Lime It’s Up.''Get a guide''We’ve talked before about having a great''ski holiday in nearby Austria''and recommended\xa0picking up a guide there. It’s no different in Switzerland, especially when some of the ski areas span over multiple villages, valleys, and even countries. If you end up on the wrong side of the mountain in say…Zermatt then when the lifts close you’ll be spending the night in Italy, yes it happens.''Generally the larger the resort the more you will benefit from a guide/instructor. It doesn’t matter your ability level as even expert riders and professionals hire out a local guide who knows the mountain to show them the best places to head. If you want to make the most out of a big mountain and give little thought to where you are heading a guide is good for your first full day on the mountain. They give you a great lay of the land and put the mountain into perspective.''Our guide Yanne\xa0from the Swiss Ski School Nendaz gave us the perfect introduction to the 4 Vallées ski area. After all, we needed someone to coax us up to the top of Mont Fort and down the''famous run from the top''. We spent the entire day with our guide crisscrossing between villages with no fear of getting lost or on a route above our skill level.''Looking down the ski route''Second steepest piste in Europe''Practice safety in the mountains''The mountains can be a dangerous place, and although it may not seem like it, skiing/snowboarding definitely comes with risks. Wherever we can we attempt to mitigate risks and make sure we are being safe.''Have Proper Equipment:''We believe everyone should wear a helmet. That means expert riders and especially beginners. Make sure your equipment is in good condition and technically sound. Here is our''full ski and snowboard packing guide.''Ski to Your Ability'': There is a big difference between pushing yourself and getting in over your head. The latter puts yourself and even others at risk. You should also always be in control, too often do we see beginners straight lining down the mountain at crazy speeds. Remember, whoever is downhill has the right of way.''Be Prepared'': Always carry an extra layer in case temperatures drop and pack necessities like water and chapstick. If you’re going into the backcountry or anywhere out of bounds you should have all necessary avalanche equipment.''Safety Code'': Make sure to always ahead to the safety code.''Always stay in control.''People downhill have the right of way. Their ability level does not matter!''Stop in a safe place for you and others.''Whenever starting downhill or merging, look uphill and yield.''Prevent runaway equipment.''Observe signs and warnings, and keep off closed trails.''Know how to use the lifts safely.''If you don’t know how to use a chairlift or t-bar then ask the lift operators.''Save money''There are a lot of ways you can''save money''on your holiday. One of the first ways is with your accommodation as I mentioned earlier – it’s likely your largest expense after plane tickets.''Pick the right spot:''Nendaz offers access to the 4 Vallées Ski Area while coming in at a much lower price than it’s glitzy party hungry neighbor Verbier. If you’re looking for a low key spot with amazing ski than this is the spot for you.''Lift Tickets:''There are a couple of ways to save on lift tickets in Switzerland. Purchase in advance, six days+, as a group, or a family pass. Wherever you are walking up to the window day of will yield the highest lift ticket prices.''Avoid Unnecessary Expenses:''It’s easy to lose track of expenses when traveling. All of those cappuccinos, wines, and souvenirs can add up really quick. Especially in a country like Switzerland, where eating out isn’t exactly a poor man’s activity. It’s often the small experiences that can add up and break a budget.''Pack that lunch:''On mountain food in Switzerland is insanely expensive. We may or may not have paid 10 CHF for a small basket of fries before. That being said the food in the alps is some of the best we’ve had while on a ski trip. However, for those on a budget pick up the ingredients to make some sandwiches for lunch on the mountain. Peanut butter and jelly, protein bars and shakes, and apples are always a good go-to food option.''Pick the Right Time:''Peak season will always see higher prices. Even lift tickets can fluctuate in price, but the biggest difference in price will be regarding accommodation. If the snow looks good you can always book later in the season with good assurance there will still be snow while getting a lower rate on accommodation.''Rent or bring your own''There are a lot of factors to consider when it comes to bringing your own gear or renting ski and snowboard equipment. If you have your own equipment and are flying from overseas I would recommend to at least bring your boots as a carry-on. Nothing will fit like your own boots and quality ones are designed to form fit around your feet. It’s best not to leave it up to the airline to potentially lose your boots as they will be harder to rent.''If you’re flying to the destination it most likely makes sense to rent your gear. Flying with equipment can be a pain in the ass. You don’t need to assume rental gear will be the worst stuff ever as many rental shops have top quality gear and you can also demo the latest pro setups. As with many things in life you get what you pay for, pro gear is costly and the rundown gear is cheap.''That being said we do travel with our own gear, but we also put in 25 days on the slopes around Italy, Austria, and Switzerland. A lot depends on the length of your trip and how many days you’ll actually ride or ski. If you’re looking for a great snowboard bag we’ve been using the''Dakine Low Roller Bag.''If you’re a skier this''bag is great for traveling''. Also, as a tip, if you’re using a rental car you don’t need an SUV to get gear around just a standard vehicle with an open seat. We stick our gear upright in the back seat with the tips under the front seat to avoid paying extra for a larger car.''Packing for your Swiss Ski Trip''If you’re looking for some tips to pack for your ski holiday check out our''ski/snowboard packing list''. As a general rule, it’s best to travel as light as possible. I travel with a''carry on backpack,''leaving\xa0my hands free since we travel with our own snowboards. The carry on luggage also helps save money on baggage costs as ski/snowboard gear usually counts as a checked bag and not “sporting equipment”.\xa0 If you are traveling with your own gear we suggest picking up a lightweight bag with wheels like the''Dakine Low Roller''.''If you’re heading to big cities in Europe,''Decathlon''is a great option for finding outdoor gear at a reasonable price. We’ve been shopping here for years, and it’s safe to say it’s our favorite store in Europe.''Read Next:''10 Things to Know About Travel in Switzerland''Best Travel Backpacks For Europe • Our Top Picks to Save Your Back 2018''Things to do in Grindelwald, Switzerland in the Winter''A Ski Resort Guide To Davos-Klosters Pistes''The Best Winter Packing List for Europe and Beyond''Tips for the Perfect Switzerland Ski Holiday in Nendaz''March 24, 2018''10 Things to Know About Travel in Switzerland''March 8, 2018''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''March 6, 2018''Tips for the Perfect Switzerland Ski Holiday in Nendaz''was last modified:''April 16th, 2018''by''Cameron''We should know the best beaches in Europe after traveling to almost every country in the Meditteranean. Some of our favorite beaches in the world lie on The coastline of Europe may not be as popular as the South Pacific, Caribbean, or the Indian Ocean. However, Europe’s beaches are every bit as beautiful.''This list features what we consider to be the best beaches in Europe. Beaches come from Italy, Portugal, Turkey, Cyprus, Iceland, and Greece. At the end of the day, these beaches barely scratch the surface of what lies along Europe’s coast.''Travelers could spend years exploring all of Europe’s beaches. We couldn’t even make the argument that you could lump in all of the coasts of Portugal, Italy, Greece, and Croatia into the list of best beaches. There is just so much to cover here, so we’ve selected our ten favorite beaches we have personally visited in Europe.''The Best Beaches in Europe''Praia da Marinha, Algarve, Portugal''There’s no doubt that the Southern coast of Portugal is gorgeous. We spent a month in Lagos with the aim to see the best''beaches in the Algarve.''While all of the beaches are stunning, our absolute favorite is Praia da Marinha.\xa0Praia da Marinha is a small bay with bright blue and turquoise water encompassed by limestone cliffs. There are a variety of different rock formations, including arches, caves, and ledges that are accessible from the shore and make for a nice swim.''It’s possible to scuba dive or snorkel here and see the various octopuses, seahorses, and bream.\xa0 At the cliff top, you can embark on a nature walk, have a picnic, or admire the east and the west. In the offseason, this beach is paradise, in the summer season, it’s best to arrive early and enjoy as the crowds will definitely come. You can find the''beach location here''!''Stefanou Beach, Crete, Greece''Cameron often asks me what my favorite beach in the world is, and I always tell him that Stefanou Beach is up there. Stefanou Beach is a small beach on the''Greek island of Crete''.\xa022km northeast of Chania and 2km east of the village Chordaki lies this tranquil place. There is no public transport here so you will either need a car or a boat to access the pebble beach.''I’m not certain how we found out about it, as it doesn’t seem to be well known on the touristy island. But after the heart-stopping straight down zig-zag drive I am sure happy we made it. Stefanou Beach is absolutely gorgeous with the calm Meditteranean\xa0waters that draw us back to Greece again and again.''Balos Beach, Crete, Greece''One of my other favorite beaches in Europe is also on the largest island in Greece. Balos Beach isn’t as secluded as Stefanou and is popular with tourists, but once you see the sprawling beach it’s easy to overlook.\xa0 Located on the very western tip of Crete past Kissamos is Balos Beach. To access the beach by car you will need to drive alongside a steep hill for about 10 kilometers and make a one-kilometer trek down to the beach (this isn’t the hard part though because you must LEAVE the beach eventually and hike back up).''Spending the day in this turquoise paradise is relaxing. At the lagoon, you can expect to\xa0find amazing blue and turquoise waters surrounded by white sand.\xa0 The water is warm and shallow which makes it the perfect place to hang out with children.''Oludeniz Beach, Turkey''Oludeniz Beach is a beautiful lagoon in the Aegean Sea. Located 14 km from Fethiye this beach should be seen in person as it is stunning. The blue flag pebble beach is a great place to come to lay out for the day and soak up the sunshine while relaxing in the warm Mediterranean water. This is not a secret location though, and it frequently makes the list of best beaches in Europe.''Just about every Turk and their grandmother knows of Oludeniz beach and that means that every Brit knows about it too. The area is well developed and caters to a large influx of tourists in the summer seasons. The good news is it’s great for all – young couples, families, retirees, and groups of friends. The beach is also surrounded by protected forests so that nature is still on full display here. Oludeniz is also a popular place to go paragliding at, imagine all the crisp blue and mountainous scenery from up high!''Marina Grande Beach, Positano, Italy''Just south of Naples is the famous Amalfi coast. If you’ve watched any travel movies that are set in''Italy''chances are there is a shot of Positano’s most iconic beach, Marina Grande Beach. Positano is a quaint and charming town that cascades down from the hills. It’s plagued with sunshine, clean beaches, art galleries, restaurants, and plenty of''Italian coffee shop''s to pass the day. While it’s certainly seen it’s fair for tourists it still maintains that picture perfect Italian town, due to its limited space and high prices.''During the summer you’ll find this 300-meter long beach lined with chairs and umbrellas, and a swirl of restaurants and cafes to keep you full and happy. The beach is a free area to relax on. However, if you are looking for something a bit different then Positano is a great jumping off point for''Punta Campanella''and even''Capri''.''Cape Greco, Cyprus''In the Ayia Napa\xa0district of Cyprus is Cape Greco. This isn’t your typical layout and suntan beach. It’s much better and more adventurous than that. It is here that you can explore and swim in sea caves. Some of the sea caves go as much as 80 meters into the rock at low tide, making it the ideal time to walk and swim around them.''The whole area is a national forest and it makes for the perfect place to go hiking and to stretch your legs.\xa0There are also spots of deep water amongst the rocks where the fearless can take part in cliff\xa0jumping and diving. I may or may not have given a stab at this – don’t tell my mom!\xa0If you’re looking to do more than read in a sun lounger under an umbrella you should definitely check out''Cape Greco.''Reynisfjara Black Sand Beach, Iceland''Another unconventional\xa0beach on this list is Iceland’s''Reynisfjara Black Sand Beach''.\xa0Reynisfjara is a volcanic black sand beach on the''South Coast of Iceland.''It is one of the most visited and surreal spots in a country famed for its natural beauty. You can’t go swimming here, but you can admire the mighty ocean from the comfort of the small black stones on shore. There are also famous basalt columns Reynisfjara. Reynisfjell is a 340-meter mountain of surreal hexagonal basalt columns.''During the summer you can see puffins nesting on these columns, but try your best not to be a bad tourist and disturb them!\xa0 The ocean is always dangerous, and at this particular spot in Iceland, that is definitely no exception. Reynisfjara is one of the most dangerous sights in the country as there are frequent rogue waves that have claimed a few unsuspecting lives. Stay away from the water and admire from afar. This beach is so unique you’ll have to pinch yourself!''Oia, Santorini, Greece''It may seem like''we love Greece''– and we do! The Greek beaches are definitely my personal favorite in Europe. I didn’t really want to mention Santorini on this list as just about everyone has heard of Santorini, however, it really is out of a dream, so there’s no avoiding it. Although all of Santorini is spectacular, the real star of the show (and the one you’ve seen most on Instagram) is the cliff-perched village of Oia.''Whitewashed buildings cascading down to\xa0Ammoudi Bay make for picture perfect photos and a romantic time. It is here that some of the best sunsets in the world can be seen. All this mixed in with the warm blue waters of the Mediterranean sea down below make this the ideal place for a vacation, especially a romantic honeymoon.''Pakleni Islands, Hvar, Croatia''If you plan to travel away from mainland Croatia to Hvar then you must head to the beautifully wooded island chain. The Pakleni Islands\xa0offer small, secluded stone beaches, deserted coves, quiet lagoons, crystal clear water,\xa0 and sun-drenched hills. They can be seen from''mainland Hvar''but it’s best to get out there either via private boat, ferry, or kayak to experience them.''In the summertime, expect a lot of yachts as it is one of the most popular docking grounds in the Adriatic. Of course, a common person like us can travel there as well as Croatia is not a ridiculously expensive destination.\xa0 The Pakleni Islands are also where the party is at in the summer so don’t come here in July or August if you want to sleep.''Sveti Stefan, Montenegro''I bet you didn’t think I would be mentioning Montenegro on this list, did you? The truth is''we love traveling around the Balkans''. They are affordable, easy to travel, full of culture, contains magical natural sights, and home to stunning beaches. Sveti Stefan is a small inlet located only 15 minutes away from the popular tourist town of Budva. It’s one of the most popular''places to visit in Montenegro''and once you arrive you will see why.''The island is a fortified 15th-century village complete with old stone buildings, pink sand beaches, and warm turquoise water.The island is privately owned and only resort guests are permitted access to Sveti Stefan. Never fear, visitors can still relax on the beaches to the north or south or the island.''Read Next:''Europe Travel Guide''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''The 14 Best Beaches in the Algarve''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''was last modified:''March 23rd, 2018''by''Natasha''Grab your keys and load up the car for your next road trip. Let’s break down the road trip essentials we’re always sure to carry in our vehicle. We’ve listed some of our favorite products along with stuff we love to carry in our car for the right occasion.''Now, we’ve done our fair share of road trips. We drove a''truck across Africa'', road tripped''around the hills of Ireland'', explored the Canadian Rockies, and plenty more. In fact, we almost always use a rental car or our own truck in our travels these days.''Road Trip Essentials''First aid kit''We traveled with a first aid kit during both our''South Africa road trip''and''Iceland Ring Road trip''. Thankfully, we never had to use it, but it was comforting knowing we had a few essentials should we need burn cream, band-aids, gloves, or disinfectant.''Here’s a well kitted one on Amazon.''. If you’re really going off the grid like we did in Africa it’s good to have sutures, blood clotting solution, fluid, and antibiotics.ds''Bluetooth headset''If you plan on talking on the phone during your road trip then invest in a Bluetooth headset so you can drive with your hands-free. They are very easy to set up and the ease and safety of having both hands available while driving is invaluable.''Of course, these days plenty of automobiles come equipped with handsfree Bluetooth so it’s a good idea to set it up before you hit the road. When we’re in a rental car we always make sure to connect our phone if it’s an option before we drive out of the parking lot.''Snow supplies''We just completed a road trip around Alberta and British Columbia in the winter. It didn’t take us long to be thankful for a few snow specific car tools. First off, an ice scraper is priority as well as a''shovel'',''rock salt'',''seatbelt cutter, and window breaker.''I know those last few seem extreme, but they are a very small price to pay that could potentially save your life.''Jumper cables''Jumper cables''are cheap to purchase and can get you out of a bind should your battery die. These are good to have in your car not just for a special road trip but also for day to day driving. If you plan on tackling a more adventurous road trip check out our''overland equipment post''.''We arrived in Mont Tremblant as snow lightly fell and winter cheer hung in the air. We had spent the majority of our''winter in Europe''and seen plenty of charming ski villages, but Mont Tremblant had to be one of the prettiest ski resorts yet. It has all the''European ambiance and charm, except on the North American continent.''On our way to Mont Tremblant, we had traveled all the way from Switzerland only to''get stuck in Toronto.''Due to inclement weather, our flights into the picturesque Tremblant airport were canceled – it was winter in Canada.\xa0 We finally arrived to our much awaited destination just 24 hours later than expected. With winter lights twinkling, fires roaring, and people enjoying the night we set out to explore Mont Tremblant village.''The village itself is compact and designed to be car-free, almost everything is a short five-minute walk. There are an endless amount of things to do in Mont Tremblant. From the village center, visitors have access to the beautiful mountain, trails, restaurants, shops, an ice skating rink, and restaurants. It only requires thirty minutes in the resort to see the holiday appeal of the ski village. Needless to say, we found Mont Tremblant to be one of the best places in the Northeast for a winter vacation!''Surrounded by the lovely Laurentians there is no shortage of winter activities to enjoy. That way if you’re not a die-hard skier or snowboarder you have plenty of activities to stay entertained. If you decide to set your sights on enjoying a ski trip to Mont Tremblant here are some awesome activities you should try out.''Our Favorite Mont Tremblant Activities''Become a Musher''Do you remember the 1995 animated movie''Balto''? It’s about a sled dog team in Alaska whose mission was to deliver life-saving serum to a town suffering from a disease outbreak. It’s been my dream to ride on a dog sled since I saw this film as a six-year-old. So, the very first activity we did in Mont Tremblant was a team to up with a bunch of our furry friends to go dog sledding. Don’t worry, there were no diseases involved, but instead lots of snow, dog kisses, and fun.''There are a few different dog sledding operators in Mont Tremblant. To book the dog sled activity you can head to the activity desk right near the gondola. For a few hours we were able to bundle up in the sled – or drive it – and take in the beautiful winter scenery\xa0from a different angle with our huskie friends.''Ski/Snowboard!''Mont Tremblant was our first snowboard destination in North America after a month in the Swiss Alps, and I must say it did not disappoint! We spent two days shredding it on the slopes of Tremblant. The summit sits at almost 900 meters and offers breathtaking views over the Laurentians. The pistes of the resort spread out from the summit and there is a large number of possibilities for all ski and snowboard abilities.''Those visitors will find a ski area that includes 96 ski trails and 79 km of piste\xa0with a variety of greens, blues, and blacks. We arrived just after a giant ice storm swept through the area, but we were pleasantly\xa0surprised that the pistes\xa0were not too icy after. This is due to Mont Tremblant’s incredible\xa0snowmaking and grooming abilities, which are considered some of the best in North America.''That way no matter when you show up in the season you should have good conditions to ride or ski. Personally, after coming from some massive ski areas in''Switzerland''and Austria it was nice to navigate a smaller resort. With the resort spreading out around one mountain and a nice central base it makes the resort very family friendly. That doesn’t mean more experienced skiers and riders won’t have a good time as there are some steep groomed black runs and glades that make for an exhilarating ride.''Get Discounted Lift Tickets!''Snowtube''When we arrived at our hotel in Mont Tremblant we were surprised to learn that guests staying in''Mont Tremblant’s main village''get free snow tube rentals and access to the snow tubing park in the town. Every night from 6-8 next to the Fairmont a snow tube run lights up for all to enjoy after a fun day around the village. It’s a fun way to get a little more adventure in before warming up with a hot chocolate by the fire for the night.''Twirl on skates''Along with the tubing, Mont Tremblant village guests are given free access to the town ice skating rink and skate rentals every day they stay. Even if you have never walked on ice, ice-skating is a right of passage to winter time in Canada. So there is no excuse to not get out there and strut your stuff!''Hit up a brewery''Mont Tremblant’s not all about staying active outside. There’s also a brewery in the pedestrian village with some delicious beers on tap.''La Diable Micro Brewery''has a number of 100% natural, craft beers brewed right in-house. We came here for lunch on one of our ski days and were surprised by the extensive food menu as well. There’s pub food, but also salads and wraps for healthy eating. It’s a great place to come after a day on the slopes and relive your mountain tales with friends.''Treat yourself!''Although Mont Tremblant is a small village there is absolutely no shortage of high-quality restaurants. Whether you are on a family vacation, couples getaway, or friends trip at least one night out at one of these restaurants is essential. We had a couple memorable meals in Mont Tremblant, but our two favorites were at''Coco Pazzo''and''Le Choux Gras Brasserie Culinaire.''Coco Pazzo is an institution in Mont Tremblant, serving up modern Italian cuisine in a small setting. All of their ingredients come from local sources and they make many of special ingredients in-house. Try the Linguine Pescatore – it’s one of their longest-running menu items since they opened their doors in 1997.''Le Choux Gras Brasserie Culinaire is definitely not a cheap meal out, but the food here is top notch. The French restaurant is a new addition and located inside the Fairmont. It always features fresh, local and seasonal products. There is a range of meat, fish, and vegetarian options on the menu. Reservations are highly recommended for the weekend. If you’re struggling to find a good place to eat just walk around the beautiful Mont Tremblant village in the winter and see where the crowds are!''Snowmobile tour''We had been scheduled for a snowmobile tour in Mont Tremblant but had to cancel it when our flight got pushed back due to the ice storm. Snowmobiling is a popular activity in Mont Tremblant , and all of Canada for that matter. It provides yet another great way to take in the beauty of the Laurentians. All novices will ride with a guide, but if you are confident you can rent one and explore on your own!''Shop till you drop''Mont Tremblant’s pedestrian village is filled with shops, restaurants, and hotels. The whole area is walkable and if you are staying in the village you can get pretty much anywhere within five minutes on foot. The village is bright, colorful, fun, and quite possibly the most picturesque North American ski resort we’ve ever visited.''Along the pedestrian village, there are plenty of shops to get some shopping done while in Quebec. There are a number of well known outdoor brands and local boutique shops. If you’re not much of a skier or snowboarder and want to relax in a pleasant village Mont Tremblant has you covered.''Catch the sunrise''Every day, guests in Mont Tremblant have the opportunity to be one of the first on the mountain with a “first tracks” ticket.\xa0 Lifts officially open for the mountain at 8:30, but for those with this special pass they open at 7:45. That means you can watch the sunrise on the mountain and enjoy the freshly groomed trails! This experience is another program that is offered for free with the lodging priveledges I mentioned before!''Where to stay in Mont Tremblant''We called''The Westin''home while we enjoyed our activities in Mont Tremblant. The Westin is a large hotel situated right in the heart of the pedestrian village. In true Westin style, rooms here were clean, spacious, and comfortable. The rooms here come with a small kitchenette, living room, and gas fireplace to warm up after a day on the slopes. A ski room to store gear is located only steps away from the gondola making for an easy walk through town in ski boots.''There’s also a large gym and luxurious pool to enjoy. Although the outdoor pool was closed because of winter, the outdoor hot tub remained opened and served as a nice place to watch the sunset.''Other great options in Mont Tremblant are:''Fairmont Tremblant'':''The most well-known hotel in Mont Tremblant. You’ll find a few great restaurants here, a heated pool, and mountain views.''Sommet Des Neiges'':''Easily one of the nicest hotels in Mont Tremblant. They offer ski in/ski out access right near the pedestrian village.''La Chaumière de l’Anse'':''A great mid-range bed and breakfast. Homemade breakfast is served here as well as free parking!''How to get to Mont Tremblant''Mont Tremblant may be small, but as of recently it’s well connected with the outside world. Mont Tremblant airport is only a 40-minute drive from Mont Tremblant and services flights to/from Toronto and Montreal with Porter Airlines and Air Canada. We flew from Toronto with Porter Airlines, which is much easier than driving seven hours from Toronto. There is a shuttle at the airport to transfer arrivals and departures to and from the town for 25 CAD.''Mont Tremblant is also only a 90-minute drive from Montreal so it’s also possible to take the bus or drive!''Read Next:''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3 & More!''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''April 24, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''April 19, 2018''10 Amazing Mont Tremblant Activities You Should Definitely Experience''was last modified:''May 3rd, 2018''by''Natasha''There are a ton of reasons to travel in Switzerland. We can’t even try and dissuade you from it by saying it’s one of the most expensive countries in the world. As Switzerland is busting at the seams with alpine lakes, dramatic cliff faces mountains, modern cities, flower-filled meadows, charming villages, fresh air, alphorns, and free-roaming''dairy cows''it’s easy to see the allure.''It’s one of the safest countries in the world, with no bad seasons, and plenty of villages to explore. Needless to say, a visit to Switzerland should definitely be on everyone’s bucket list. Planning on a trip of your own? Here are ten things to know about travel in Switzerland.''Things to know about travel in Switzerland''Switzerland is expensive''If you plan to travel to Switzerland on a''backpackers budget''you’re going to have a hard time. Switzerland consistently ranks as one of the most expensive countries in the world to live and travel. From our experience, we can say that''only Iceland''passes Switzerland in terms of holy shit pricing.''The first time I traveled to Switzerland years ago, I distinctly\xa0remember staying two nights, eating ramen noodles, and hiking around the mountains just so I could keep traveling without selling a limb. The second time I visited, I was on a bit of a larger budget, but that still didn’t mean the prices stopped shocking me.''So just how expensive is Switzerland? You can expect a basic cappuccino will run you\xa0 5-8 CHF, while a takeaway meal can set you back 15-20 CHF. Hostel dorm rooms generally start at 30 CHF per night, a basic hotel room in a city like Lucerne is about 100 CHF (or more), and a three-hour train ride across the country may cost 70 CHF, but only if you book in advance.''Of course, the costs all depend on the activities you do, how much you shop around, your accommodation style, and how basic you eat. I would say a very''basic''budget''for Switzerland is at least 60-75 CHF a day to start out with. High-end prices only climb from there.''There are ways to get by cheaply''Despite Switzerland being so insanely expensive, there are ways that you can cut costs when you travel. Most of my tips aren’t specific to just Switzerland, but to''traveling cheaper''in general.''Move less:''Unless you built an invisible jet made out of rainbows and runs on unicorn poop it is going to cost you to move around. Like anywhere, the more you move the more it costs. Rail, bus, and car rentals aren’t cheap in Switzerland so if you are on a budget I would suggest picking just a few top places that you want to see and take time exploring those places in depth.\xa0 If you find you have to move try using the car sharing economy, buses, or hitchhiking if you feel comfortable.''Eat vegetarian at grocery stores:''If you’re going out for a meal it’s going to cost you at least 20-30 CHF to eat. Shopping for your own meals and cooking is going to be the cheapest way to eat. Migro and Co-Op are the main supermarkets in Switzerland and some sell ready-made meals if you don’t have a kitchen to cook. Meat is also expensive in Switzerland so consider giving up meat while you’re there! (''Not to mention its''bad for the environment''and linked to cancer, but that’s just why we’re vegetarian'')''Drink the tap water'': Save plastic and money and don’t buy bottled water in Switzerland. Tap water is perfectly safe to drink! Here are some of our''favorite travel water bottles''.''Cut out the booze'': Drinking is not a cheap affair in Switzerland. Skip the drinking or stick to drinking at home to save money.''Hiking is free!''While Switzerland is known for being expensive, it’s also known for being gorgeous. Travelers are greeted with alpine lakes, dramatic cliff faces mountains, and flower-filled meadows.''No matter the season Switzerland is an outdoor lovers dream. You know what they say – nature is free! So you at least don’t have to spend much to enjoy Switzerland’s pristine landscapes. All around the country, there is fantastic hiking or snowshoeing (depends on season). Some of my favorite hikes in the country started around Interlaken (''Read about nearby Grindelwald'')!''You have to fondue at least once''You may have had some sort of fondue before, but have you had it in Switzerland? Fondue originates from the landlocked country and became popular after the Swiss Cheese Union aggressively promoted it as a marketing strategy in the 1930’s. Now, it’s become common place as a communal affair throughout Switzerland with families and friends sitting down to the dinner table to enjoy – especially when it’s cold out.''Generally, the Swiss will enjoy melted cheese and bread (and probably an abundance of drinks) in presence of good company. It’s probably the American in me, but I always wanted different fruits and vegetables to dip into the cheese but the most common thing to dip into cheese is local bread!''We also learned from a few locals that traditionally if you lose your bread in the cheese you are the next to buy the group a round of drinks. So hold on to your bread!''Sometimes words can get confusing''“Swiss” is not a language. Instead, Switzerland has four national languages: German,\xa0French,\xa0Italian\xa0and\xa0Romansh. If you’re traveling around the whole country, what greeting to use can get confusing.\xa0Generally speaking the more west you get (towards France) the more French you will hear. When you are south''(towards Italy)''you will start to hear some Italian.''The majority of the country speaks Swiss German.''Romansh is the least spoken in Switzerland making up 1% of the Swiss population. While many Swiss are bi-lingual don’t assume that the French-speaking population can speak German and vice versa.''Switzerland is a small country so it’s completely possible to go from a Swiss German-speaking section of the country to French in less than an hour.''Pick up a Swiss Rail Pass''If you plan on extensive travel in Switzerland and hitting many destinations, consider getting a''Swiss Rail Pass''. Switzerland has an extensive train system and you can get just about anywhere via rail and bus. The Swiss Travel Pass is an all in one ticket giving you complete access to Switzerland''(and Liechtenstein!)''. A 15-day pass is just shy of 500 CHF, so it’s definitely not cheap. However, if you are planning on traveling every two to three days having a pass could be cheaper than buying many different point to point tickets.''I’ve traveled by both first and second class rail passes while in Switzerland. The main difference is that first class has larger windows, more comfortable, and is generally quieter as there are fewer people. However, we feel like the second class tickets are a much better value as the difference isn’t vast. Swiss travel passes also grant you free access to over 500 museums in the country. Punctuality is also your friend when it comes to traveling in Switzerland. If the train is set to leave at 12:03, it will leave at 12:03.''Switzerland is not part of the EU''Switzerland is not part of the European Union, meaning that unlike their neighbors they do not use the Euro note. The Swiss Franc is one of the most stable currencies in the world and is the national currency of Switzerland.''If you find yourself in a bind you might be able to use a Euro note depending on if you are at a tourist destination or not. Although Switzerland is not in the EU, it is a member of the Schengen Agreement and depending on where you are from that could mean visa free travel.''Read more about that here''.''Yodel''–''Lay''–''Hee-Hoo!''You know those Ricola commercials\xa0that dominated ad space in the 90’s?''If not here is a refresher''. That Swiss yodeler high in the Alps strapped with\xa0lederhosen''and carrying an alphorn isn’t just a marketing gimmick. It used to be a way of life in Switzerland and neighboring countries. People would use their powerful voice and alphorn to communicate between mountain villages and valleys.''We actually had the opportunity to play an Alphorn in Nendaz. And I must say the wooden natural horn came natural to me. Although, the alphorn and yodeling aren’t common in modern Swiss culture anymore, there are still annual festivals and people who play to keep the tradition alive. A number of villages and destinations offer tourists a chance to try their hand at the famous instrument.''Don’t expect to make a ton of friends''If your goal is to make a bunch of Swiss friends while in Switzerland you will most likely have to work harder than usual. We found the Swiss to be very reserved people, guarded, and never veering out of their way to make small talk with people. That’s not to say the Swiss are unfriendly, they just may not open their homes to you like say…the''Greeks''or''Scots''.''Get a universal power adaptor''You will need a specific adaptor to charge your electronics in Switzerland.\xa0Most of continental Europe use the''Schuko''plug, also known as''type F''). While Switzerland uses the Type J outlets and those are slightly smaller. If you’re traveling around Europe save yourself a headache and go ahead and get a Universal travel adaptor. Most Universal adaptors fit with the Europlug which works in Switzerland.''Here is the exact one I have''and I have traveled all around Europe and the UK with it.''Read Next:''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''A Ski Resort Guide To Davos-Kloster’s Pistes''Five Amazing European City Breaks and Where to Stay''The Perfect Europe Packing List • Don’t Forget This''Europe Travel Guide''Best Travel Backpacks For Europe • Our Top Picks to Save Your Back 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''10 Things to Know About Travel in Switzerland''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''Getting ready for a grand trip to backpack around Europe? Europe was our first backpacking trip together, and it’s a fantastic place to travel when you’re young!''We’ve been to almost every single country in Europe. With almost two years of our lives traveling around Europe we know a thing or two about getting around the continent and what it costs to travel. It’s one of the most common questions we receive.''“How much does it cost to backpack around Europe?”''Our guide should help you budget for your first backpacking trip in Europe. We’ll cover common costs of a trip to Europe such as transportation, food, gear, and accommodation. This way you come prepared with enough cash in the bank account.''How Much to Budget for Europe?''I know\xa0before you actually read the details you want an actual number in your head. When we backpack we strive to travel on a budget of less than''$45/day'', no matter what country. If you’re frugal it is easy to come under this budget. We do believe that even in the most expensive of countries it is possible to keep your Europe trip costs at''$50/day''. Note that this is not including your pre-trip expenses like purchasing flights and gear.''With a modest budget of''$20/day''on accommodation in Europe, and budget''$10-15''for food, the rest can be left over for transport or fun things (like beer and good wine!).''In countries like Norway and France, a budget like this is going to require more legwork and planning. In countries like Bosnia and Serbia, you will have to\xa0try''hard''to hit $40 for the day. Your daily budget for a Europe trip should include transport costs, accommodation, food, and activities.''Backpacking Europe Trip Cost''Pre-trip Expenses''There are a number of items and thing you’ll need to do before you travel to Europe. Obvious things like getting a passport and booking flights are an important step. We also suggest that you always''travel with insurance.''It’s easily overlooked and we love adventure sports so it’s not worth the risk.''Passport''The first thing you’ll need is a passport, and if you’re''American that doesn’t come cheap''. Both a new passport and a renewal passport will run you''$110''. Make sure to allow yourself at least two months for the passport to arrive in the mail or you could end up paying''$60''to have it expedited.''Airfare''This is going to most likely be your largest pre trip expense for Europe. The good news is that flights to Europe are becoming cheaper than ever. The bad news is a good deal usually requires you to be flexible with your travel planning.''That being said there are some great low cost carriers these days. Check out''Norwegian Air''and''Wow Air''for one ways flights as low as $69! If you plan to travel to multiple destinations look for the cheapest flight to Europe than plan your trip from there.''Backpack''If you are backpacking through Europe you’re going to need a backpack. We break down the''best backpacks for Europe here.''Put aside between $100-$200 for a good travel backpack.''Travel Accessories''From adapters to walking shoes, to even a''good travel towel''you’ll want to be prepared before you land. If you’re coming from North America I suggest buying all these items online before your European trip as most items will cost more in Europe. Check out our ultimate''European packing list''for ideas.''Travel Insurance''It’s always a good idea to set yourself up with travel insurance before your trip. We personally never travel without it.\xa0We like to travel with''insurance from World Nomads''.''Banking''This is not a full expense. However, you should''practice good travel banking habits''as it will can save you a lot of money. Getting the right checking account that minimizes fees saving you money when withdrawing cash.''Check out we suggest saving money for travel.''Europe Transportation Cost''This is going to be your largest expense while backpacking through Europe, but if you’re smart about it and plan ahead you can get around cheaply. Train travel is the easiest and most convenient way to backpack through Europe.''Eurail Pass & Trains''I backpacked for about three months around''Western Europe on a Eurail pass''. The pass wasn’t cheap, it cost me $1300 for three months of unlimited travel through Europe, that comes to $14.50 a day. \xa0Considering the area I was traveling through and how much I was hopping around on trains it was a bargain. You can''buy your rail pass and determine which is best here.''Bus Travel''Europe is not only traveled by train, there is also a large bus network that connects most countries. I like to use''GoEuro''to compare bus vs. train costs. \xa0Traveling throughout parts of Croatia, Romania, and Poland by bus can cost as little as $8 a bus ticket.''Low Cost Air Carriers''I’m sure\xa0you’ve also heard of''Ryan Air''. Ryan Air is a low-cost carrier who services almost all of Europe. If you have the time,''check Skyscanner'', and look for cheap flights. We got flights from Rome to Marrakech for''$12''. Other no frills/low cost carriers are Wow Air, Wizz Air, and Easy Jet. On average you can pick up a cheap flight for under a''$100''.''Hitchhiking''How open are you to hitchhiking? In America this is seen as a big no-no; However, in Europe, it is quite common. If you want something a little more secure try''BlaBlaCar,''similar to hitchhiking except it is prearranged and you chip in for gas.''What is best?''How much time do you have to backpack across Europe? Transport will be your largest expense consider that the slower you travel the lower your transportation costs. A week in Barcelona will cost less than\xa0 This will drastically cut your costs and increase your understanding of the region you’re in.''There is a give and take with cost versus comfort.\xa0 If there is a 10-hour train ride that costs $20, and a 2-hour train ride that costs $50, it’s up you to decide on where you spend your cash. If you’re willing to sacrifice comfort you can save a lot of money.''Accommodation Costs in Europe''At the end of the day, you will need to find somewhere to lay your head down. Accommodation is the second largest cost of backpacking in Europe. In terms of cost for comfort, your best option will be a hostel or Airbnb. Although, in the cheaper countries you can find affordable hotel rooms and guesthouses with ease.''Hostels''In parts of Western Europe, you are going to be paying more for a brand new hostel in the city center. In the heat of summer season, some places in Scandinavia costs''$40/night''for a dorm bed. This is insane! \xa0In general, in Western Europe, I would expect to pay about $20/night for a dorm bed. In Eastern Europe, hostel beds will run you about''$10/night''. \xa0I use''Hotels.com''to find most of the accommodation in Europe.''I know what you’re thinking, this is still a huge chunk of my budget and you’re right. Accommodation isn’t cheap, but honestly, a hostel bed in Oslo still costs me significantly less than my''one bedroom apartment in NYC did.''Airbnb''Truth be told we have our''qualms with Airbnb in''the short term rental market. However, if you’re using it as a backpacker and getting a private room you can get a great deal. Plus many hosts are great at welcoming you to a new city. They can provide insight into the city and you get a chance to connect with a local. If you’ve never used it before''click here for $40 off your first booking''.''Hotels''This is the most expensive option. However, in Eastern European countries we’ve found a lot of great deals on sites like Booking.com. It’s very possible to find rooms in hotels and guesthouses for around''$25''. If you’re a couple that’s the price of a dorm bed with a lot more comfort and personal space.''Couchsurfing''You can find accommodation for free too. Sites like''Couchsurfing''connect locals and travelers, and many Europeans offer up their couches in exchange for a cultural\xa0exchange. I spent $100 for a week in Iceland because I Couchsurfed the whole time. Just remember to always check the reviews first, especially for female traveler, the internet is full of creeps.''Food & Drink Costs''This is the easiest expense to let get out of control. Multiple drinks at the bar can really eat up your budget.\xa0You should save a little for some meals out as eating the local cuisine is one of the reasons we travel. Food is one of the most important facets of every culture in the world!''Food''A midrange meal in Paris may run you $20 a plate while nice meals in Poland will cost you around $5. Take away can typically always be found. Our cheap takeaway staple is Indian and pizza.''If you’re looking to cut costs cooking your own food will be sure to make your money go further.\xa0 Eating your meals in shouldn’t cost you more than''$10''a day, and if you’re splitting your food with others expect this cost to be even less.''A decent meal ranges anywhere from $30-20 in Western Europe and $15-5 in Eastern Europe. For example you can get a nice meal in Italy for $25 or a full dinner of meze in Greece for $10. Our favorite grocery stores in Europe are Aldi and Lidl.''Drink''If you’re backpacking through Europe, you’ll probably want to have a beer in Amsterdam or a''glass of vino in Italy''. Alcohol can be the end all and be all of a budget, but it doesn’t have to be! Consider picking up your beer and wine from the grocery store or drink with your new friends at the hostel bars. Wine in Italy and France is amazing can cost as little as $2 a bottle and you can get great beer in Belgium for $1 a bottle. In most European countries you can legally drink in public like the streets and public parks.''Activity Costs in Europe''Alright, so you’ve gotten to Europe, found your accommodation, and put some food in your stomach, so now you have to fill your days with awesomeness!''Free Walking Tours''Most major European cities have free walking tours every day. We love these tours when as they’re a great way to get to know a city. \xa0It gets me acquainted with the place and also is a great way to meet people when traveling alone. \xa0Although, these walking tours are free, a tip is expected for the guide at the end, $5 a person is pretty standard for these tours.''Many museums around Europe have free entrance times and dates. Always check online ahead of time to take advantage of this.''Outdoor''Europe also has some pretty amazing parks and mountains. I know people always say that''Switzerland is expensive'', but consider just\xa0spending your days exploring the mountains. Nature is free!''Adventure Activities''This is where you can eat up a budget real quick.''Snowboarding is awesome'', bungee jumping is rad, scuba diving is unreal, and cliff diving is free. If you have hobbies or want to do something special be prepared to budget for it in advance. Otherwise, look for free or cheap things like bike rentals or rent a scooter in Greece.''How to Save Money in Europe''If you’ve made it to the end of this post and are ready to hop on the next flight out, then take away these main tips to really''save money not just in Europe, but everywhere''.''Consider staying longer in places to cut back on transport costs. Move with a purpose, don’t backtrack and always calculate the cheapest ways to travel.''Regarding accommodation, you get what you pay for. The more central hostel locations are usually going to cost more, perhaps it’s worth it to stay outside the city center, and walk in or take public transport.''Eating at grocery stores can really save your budget. I’ve lived off pre-packaged salads and sandwiches in many countries.''Just walking and exploring a new city can really fill your day and it’s free!''Where To Travel?''If it’s your first time backpacking through Europe, catch a flight to Western Europe and get out of it. Countries like France, Sweden, and Ireland are great, but they are expensive.''My favorite region to travel through in Europe''are the Balkans.''Countries like Croatia, Montenegro, and Bosnia are beautiful and inexpensive in comparison.''Generally speaking, the more east you get the cheaper the country. Where you are at is crucial to your European travel budget. I also find that countries using the Euro are going to cost more than countries with their own currency (besides Scandinavia).''Average Costs''Paris, France''Krakow, Poland''Note:''Transport''$30''$13''Routes are International: Amsterdam>Paris Budapest>Krakow''Accommodation''$22''$6''Hostel Dorm Bed Prices''Food''$15''$5''Mid-Range Restaurant''Drinks''$5''$2''Bar Drinks''Activities''$10''$4''Price of Louvre Entrance vs Price of Entrance to Wawel Castle''Cost To Travel Regions in Europe''Green:''crazy expensive countries''Blue:''expensive countries''Pink:''very affordable countries,''Purple:''budget countries.''Where does it all go in Europe?''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Europe''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''We like to use''Hotels.com''to and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adapter:''This adapter is good to go all over Europe!''Read Next:''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''21 Europe Packing List Items You Don’t Want to Forget''Balkans Travel Itinerary: The Best Eastern European Cities to Visit''Tipping in Europe: Tips on Restaurant Etiquette''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''The Honest Cost to Backpack Through Europe''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''Most are familiar with Zermatt whether we’ve heard of the tiny village or not. Switzerland’s iconic Matterhorn mountain peak rises up over the village and its image has been featured in Ricola commercials and slapped on every Toblerone chocolate bar for years. There is probably no mountain on earth with a more picturesque peak.''Naturally, to see the mountain in person was on our bucket list and it had been ever since our first Toblerone as children.\xa0With that in mind, it was an easy decision to add Zermatt to the list of destinations in Switzerland on our European ski tour. Our arrival to the Swiss village was late in the evening, so when we opened our hotel room window and looked up to see the sun setting on the mountain peak it took our breath away.''In spite of traveling so much of the world, there are those moments that still make us go “whoa!” What made it all better is that we would spend the next three days snowboarding on the mountain base. Along with being a picturesque mountain village, Zermatt is known to have one of the best ski resorts in the world.''An Introduction to Zermatt''Ski and Snowboard in Zermatt''One of the main reasons people flock to Zermatt from all over the world is the incredible ski and snowboarding. Zermatt is the highest ski resort in Europe, envelops two countries, has 99% guaranteed snow, and is open 365 days a year. If you are a ski or snowboard enthusiast a ski trip to Zermatt should be on your bucket list.''We spent three jam-packed\xa0days skiing in Zermatt and I can say with certainty that the area is one of the most jaw-dropping and extensive ski areas in the world. It’s not common to be intimidated by ski resorts, but the mountains here are huge and butterflies in the stomach are common for every skill level.''Never fear though Zermatt boasts 360 km of groomed pistes, suitable for every level and showcasing a wide range of terrain. The Snowpark Zermatt is accessible via cable car and offers freestyle skiers and\xa0snowboarders unparalleled\xa0views of the Matterhorn with a world-class park. Ski touring, free-riding and heliskiing are all also popular activities in Switzerland’s most famous town. Zermatt is world famous for its long ski runs, and some point between 2500 and 3900 meters I wondered if I would ever reach the bottom of the run. It is a skiers\xa0dream with so many freeride possibilities and pistes. All of this unfolds under the watchful gaze of the Matterhorn that dominates the landscape.''Perhaps one of the most interesting and intriguing aspects of\xa0skiing in Zermatt is the fact that you can literally start your ski day in Switzerland and ski or board right down into Italy for lunch.Zermatt’s ski area expands across Switzerland and Italy.''Access to both the Swiss and Italian ski area is doable with the''Ski Pass International''which gives access to pistes in both Zermatt and Breuil-Cervinia ski resort. The other great thing about this two country one ski area thing is that you can save a little money on food!\xa0 Everyone knows how expensive Switzerland is, and here you can ride right into Italy for a cheaper cappuccino or panini.''We made sure to take full advantage of this while boarding in Switzerland. One word of advice, make sure you are in the right country before they close the lifts otherwise you’ll be staying in a different country for the night. We had only three nights and two days in Zermatt, but I would recommend at least five to ski the mountain and not feel rushed. There is just so much to explore.''The Matterhorn''The Matterhorn rises up in a pyramidal peak 4,478 meters\xa0over Switzerland and Italy. Making it one of the highest summits in Europe. It’s a breathtaking mountain and has captivated all that have laid eyes on the mountain. It can be seen from Zermatt, the Italian town of''Breuil-Cervini'', and the Canton of Valais (we saw it from Mont Fort!). Almost every day there are people climbing it, but over 500 people have died while attempting\xa0the feat.\xa0 For skilled climbers, it takes 8-10 hours to summit the North Peak.''I wish I could tell you first-hand information about climbing the Matterhorn. However, I prefer to keep my feet firmly on the ground or attached to a snowboard. You don’t have to climb the Matterhorn to enjoy the views. From many mountain huts and points in Zermatt, you can see the world’s most iconic mountain and there are many points where you can ski right next to it!''Apres Ski in Zermatt''If it’s not the Matterhorn, the car-free town, or the pistes that draw you to Zermatt then let me introduce you to the world of Apres Ski. According to Ditionary.com, the definition of Apres Ski is “social activities and entertainment following a day’s skiing.” And there are not many places in Europe that do Apres Ski better than Zermatt.''The village is known for its fun crowds and live bands. It’s considered one of the best party ski resorts in Switzerland. At the end of every day on the mountain skiers and boarders from everywhere come to gather at some of the many mountain huts at the base of the Matterhorn. Try out''Hennu Stall'',''Cervo'', or''Elsie’s Bar''!''The Zermatt Village''Young, old, skiers, or just casual vacationers in search of a charming Swiss atmosphere head to this mountain village. The village of Zermatt has been drawing people in since the early 1800’s. What was once a poor farming village is now one of Europe’s most posh places to vacation. The center caters to all and has everything you could need – boutique hotels, designer shops, Michelin starred restaurants, adventure sports shops, grocery stores, bars, and stunning views.''Walking around this car-free village felt just like a fairy tale and I feel spoiled to enjoy it on our first ski trip around the world. The town is walkable and well worth a daytime or nighttime stroll. Due to building ordinances, the modern town still feels like a journey back in time. We had fun searching for old-style Swiss homes and watching the ice skaters under the starry sky.''How to get to Zermatt''As mentioned before Zermatt is a completely car-free village to ensure a great atmosphere and fresh mountain air. However, there are e-buses and e-taxis to get people around. The buses are free while the taxis will cost you an arm and a leg. The best way to get to Zermatt is via train. Switzerland has an extensive rail network and the Glacier Express runs right into Zermatt.''It’s also possible to catch the train from just about anywhere in Switzerland via a number of transfers. Train travel is super easy in Switzerland and how we chose to get around, that way you can just look out the window and admire the views without a care in the world. If you choose to drive in you’ll have to park your car in a parking garage in Täsch and continue onwards by train.''Other things to do in Zermatt''Zermatt is a year-round destination and as popular as it is in the winter, I think it draws even more people in in the summer. Other activities besides ski include:''Winter:''Snowshoe trails''70 km of hiking trails''Toboggan''Cross country ski''Ice skate''Paraglide''Visit the Igloo Village''Summer:''Hike''Moutain bike''Climb 4000-meter mountains''Enjoy 21 km of slopes still!''Golf''Enjoy the alpine lakes''Paragliding''Zermatt – you have stolen my heart. How many Swiss Francs will it cost to get it back?''Read Next:''Switzerland Travel Guide''Best Travel Backpacks For Europe • Our Top Picks to Save Your Back 2018''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''I can’t count the number of places we have booked on Airbnb personally. We’ve found one-month apartment rentals in''Cape Town,''Belgrade,''and''Lagos''when we wanted to slow down. I remember receiving our first Airbnb discount code like it was yesterday, and since then our travels have never been the same.''We’ve also scored $15 apartments in Macedonia and Albania, stayed in old country''cabins in Ireland,''and overlooked the''jungle in the Seychelles''.''We realize that scoring that perfect Airbnb may not be as easy to first-time users, so we wanted to share a few of our Airbnb booking tips for you! Let’s talk about the sharing platform first. (''Or you can jump right to the bottom for an Airbnb coupon code'')''Love or Hate Airbnb?''We have a love/hate\xa0relationship with Airbnb.''I hate Airbnb because of damage the sharing economy has inflicted on the housing market. Five years ago, getting a one year lease may have been an easy and affordable affair. Now, it is common to purchase property as an investment to rent on Airbnb or even sign a lease. With Airbnb, landlords are able to double or even triple what a monthly tenant would pay. So it’s easy to understand the appeal of renting short term. I mean if you were a homeowner would you rather get $800/week for your property or have a long-term tenant for $1200 a month?''It has resulted in rental prices around the world sky-rocketing. I recently found a one-month''basic''apartment rental in Nicaragua for $2000, in a country where the average salary is $400 a month. That doesn’t sound right to me. Airbnb also charges guests 12% to use their platform, and 3% to the host. For the hosts, I think this is a great deal because sites like Booking.com and Agoda charge 15-20%. As an Airbnb user, 12% can really tack a lot on to the total cost of a rental.''To top it all off, my Airbnb customer service experience has been horrendous. I can’t speak on behalf of a host, but again as a guest, you don’t have much authority when it comes to problems with your rental experience. What started out as two guys renting an air mattress in their living room, has turned into yet another impersonal company. Along the way, it seems they lost sight of the customer.''We stayed in Airbnb’s all around Ireland!''That being said, we have been in and out of dozens of Airbnb rentals. Almost all of them were tremendous experiences. Airbnb gives travelers like us an easy and viable hotel alternative. As long-term travelers, we actually prefer to stay in an apartment or house as it affords us all the amenities of a home. That means we can cook, watch TV, wash our clothes, sit at a comfortable desk, and feel at home. It is a more comfortable and personal way to travel.''When traveling with a family or group we can all fit into a home, rather than multiple hotel rooms. A massive plus as it now allows people to socialize and enjoy their trip together. Yes, it was possible to find rentals before Airbnb, but not with the ease and assurance that their website brought.''Airbnb places you in touch with locals, much more than a hotel has ever provided us. We’ve had drinks, lunches, and long chats with some of our Airbnb host. They also provide a local’s insight into their region and almost always share a small part of their home with us.''It’s those reasons that we recommend Airbnb on our site. To people like us, that value a “home” when they travel and want to integrate with the community it continues to draw us back. For now, we can not replace it. Which is why we want to offer an''Airbnb first time coupon''so you can decide for yourself what you think.''Our home for a week in the Faroe Islands''Tips to Score the Perfect Airbnb''Check your settings''The first thing you to want to do when you begin your search for an Airbnb rental is to make sure your settings are correct. I know this sounds simple, but even we have messed up the settings on Airbnb’s platform and travel is our life (our job really). First, put in how many people you will be traveling with so you don’t book too many or too few beds. You may notice that the price may increase with the more people in your party.''The big thing here is determining if you want an entire place, private room, or shared room. We almost always want our own apartment. Entire places typically cost more than a private room, but we never feel comfortable staying in someones home. However, we have made the mistake before of booking an entire apartment based off\xa0a properties photos and description only to find out it was actually a\xa0private room in their home. So do your due diligence!''Set the dates''This is your chance to set the dates you need. Many hosts will offer discounts for stays longer than a week, and if you’re staying\xa0longer than a month you may also see a discount. Airbnb automatically includes this discount in the final price.''Set your price point''Airbnb gives you the option to set your price maximum with a line graph.''Check the location''Many times when you start playing with prices and getting pickier with your Airbnb rental Airbnb’s website will automatically widen your location search. So, pay special attention to the map and location details of the places you are looking at so your rental is exactly where you want it.''Not in Banff!''Turn off Instant Book''Airbnb has implemented a super annoying feature called “Instant book.” Meaning when selected you are only seeing places that you can instantly book greatly limiting your search results. Airbnb’s interface automatically switches this on for you so make sure to turn it off.''Decide if you’re okay with a cleaning fee''Many Airbnb hosts add a cleaning fee to their rental. I’ve seen cleaning fees range anywhere from $5 to $85 per stay. To me paying a $50 fee for a one to two night Airbnb rental is not okay, so I will disregard a property when I see this. Longer stays are easier to justify a cleaning fee, and it all depends on the total price a night.''Cameron and I have managed to receive\xa0glowing guest reviews over the years as we leave Airbnb’s clean when we leave. This actually has given us a bit of negotiating power and we\xa0sometimes ask hosts to knock off the cleaning fee if we promise to leave it the same way we found it. However, as a newbie Airbnb user, this may not be possible.''No matter if you are paying a cleaning fee or not you should still keep your place like you would want your home to be kept. These are private homes and apartments so treat them with respect.''Make sure there are reviews''The number one thing I look for when choosing an Airbnb is reviews and a plethora of them. Generally, we try to book Airbnb’s with at least 10 or more reviews, but even that is on the low end.''We have only booked one place before with no reviews before and it was a total gamble that turned out to be fantastic. The good thing is when a property is new and doesn’t have any reviews the host may lower the price for the first couple of guests. Everyone has to start somewhere!''Read the reviews''Now that you’ve found a place with a lot of reviews you need to actually read the reviews. Make sure they are positive and that good things are being said about both the host and the actual property. The longer we are staying at a place the more in-depth I will analyze.''The bad thing I’ve found about Airbnb is that the review system is a little manipulative. With Airbnb, you often have face to face interactions with the owner – which is great – but it means that people are less likely to leave bad reviews and notes when they should be made. It’s hard to meet a friendly person and then complain about things that should be noted.''Also, Airbnb gives the host the option to review guests it means that guests are less likely to complain when they feel they should. When you are reviewing a Marriott or Hyatt you are more likely to go into detail about complaints and negative experiences, since the receiving end isn’t an individual. Just keep that in mind when you’re looking at reviews.''Look for a Superhost''If you are super wary of booking an Airbnb then consider switching on the “Superhost” function when searching. Superhosts have to maintain a high response rating, be an active user, glowing reviews, and never cancel on guests. Super hosts generally charge more for their status but you get what you pay for.''Read the description properly''Read the description of the place you are considering. I always make sure there is internet as that is important to Cameron and I, but the description can tell you many other things. Also, pay attention to the check in and check out times since you’re arriving at a real person’s place. So checking at 2 am after a long flight may not really work for Airbnb and you should opt for a hotel that is open 24 hours.''Check the cancellation policy''If you think there is any chance your trip could fall through try to book a place with a flexible cancellation policy. Many hosts have a non-refundable cancellation policy and if you book one of these and have to cancel Airbnb will not be on your side when it comes to a refund.''Message the host before you book''I never,''ever''instant book a place. That’s because I like to message the host and tell them about us, why we are traveling there, and any details about the trip. This is my test to make sure the host is responsive and personable. It also helps answer any important questions regarding our trip.''Request a discount''If you are staying for a week or longer you may be in the position to contact the host and ask for a discount on the price. They don’t have to say yes, but it doesn’t hurt to ask. Good past reviews don’t hurt your chances of getting a discount either. We often request special rates from hosts – especially in the shoulder or off seasons. If it’s mid-summer and you’re booking a place at the beach you probably won’t be able to score a discount.''Consider the fees''It’s worth noting that Airbnb charges guests a whopping 12% “Service Fee” on top of the rental price for using their service. This is in addition to the 3% they are charging the host. The fee is unavoidable if you are booking through their platform.''Of course, you can message the host and try to take things into your own hands, but you’ll realize as soon as you try this that Airbnb’s platform blocks out all emails, social handles, and phone numbers to prevent this. It’s also worth noting that if you do take things off of Airbnb to reduce the fees you lose any right to contact Airbnb if there is a problem – this goes for both the guest and the host.''Call Airbnb\xa0as soon as there is a problem''If you realize there is a problem once you check in to your new place don’t hesitate to tell your host first. If the host doesn’t resolve it quickly then don’t wait to contact Airbnb. You have 24 hours to notify them of a problem and they should help you get it sorted.''Without further ado here is your Airbnb coupon code''Hope you guys have an awesome travel experience whether you decide to go with Airbnb or not. If it’s your first time''here is a $40 Airbnb discount code from us to you!''Read Next:''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''Planning a trip to Ireland? Here are 13 Ireland Travel Tips''The Ultimate Iceland Travel Guide''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''April 17, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''April 12, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''March 5, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''was last modified:''May 2nd, 2018''by''Natasha''As one the largest ski area in Switzerland, it’s easy to be overwhelmed by Davos-Klosters. We sure were when we first exited the funicular and got on the pistes. That’s why we’ve broken down the ski area to provide\xa0you some insights so you can make the most out of your ski holiday in Davos.''On our tour of the Alps, we made it to this world-famous town two days after its claim to fame, the World Economic Forum. However we didn’t come to mingle with world leaders, we came to Davos intent on building our skills on snowboards. It’s hard to not find challenging terrain to elevate your skills on a snowboard or pair of skis in one of the best ski resorts in the world.''Davos is a well-loved ski resort and it’s not the village charm, but the skiing on offer. With six ski areas, hundreds of kilometers of pistes, and something to offer every skill it’s easy to understand why it is well regarded.''A Piste Guide to Davos Klosters''Parsenn''Parsenn is the most popular ski resort area in Davos and readily accessible from the town center. It’s a large ski area with long runs that are largely intermediate, it’s good for families, but it is definitely easy to get lost here.''To reach Parsenn from Davos you can take the Parsennbahn funicular from Davos Dorf. The top of the funicular clocks in at 2,662m and from there it is a short gondola ride up to\xa0Weissfluhgipfel 2,844m. From the top, an array of runs spread out in different directions.''Towards the center is a number of intermediate\xa0runs that are\xa0perfect for families, beginners, and those looking to cruise.\xa0The lifts that service Parsenn are modern with gondolas and a few high-speed lifts (some with seat warmers). I had a lot of fun taking runs down the boardercross track, it was also popular with a number of skiers. I also recommend checking out the Davos Igloo Village right near\xa0Weissfluhjoch station, for a lunch or mid day drink. Additionally, you can stay overnight here and be one of the first on piste in the morning!''One major bonus of Parsenn is the special early bird skiing experience inclusive in your lift ticket. If you’re willing to brave the cold and early morning two advanced ski guides lead twelve lucky skiers up the mountain to take the first ride of the day as the sun rises over Davos. This special experience isn’t available every day, and it is mandatory to sign up in advance for this experience,''find out more here''.''Jakobshorn''As snowboarders, we found the pistes, park, and freeride opportunities best on Jakobshorn. It’s Davos-Klosters second largest ski area and well known for attracting boarders, and anyone looking to get some laps in the park. Jakobshorn is also great for beginners with its Bolgen nursery slope and easy terrain park.''Jakobshorn is also where the well known Jatz-Hutte is – a place where you can relax, eat, drink, and even hot tub while looking over the alps. They have a selection of daybeds with a spectacular view and one of the coolest hot tubs in Europe. The views are sweet, but just be for-warned that it’s a very expensive place to eat (even for Switzerland),\xa0and if you want a lounge chair they cost 5 CHF per hour.''Pischa''With low visibility and whiteout conditions on our last day, we weren’t able to test out Pischa. Instead, we headed for familiar ground/pistes on Parsenn. However, Pischa is known to be paradise on a powder day. The mountain has no groomed pistes, but a series of marked ski routes that are avalanche controlled and provide plenty of freeride opportunities.''As we’re only beginning our long journey into snowboarding we still do not have the experience or tools to the brave backcountry. That’s why on a stormy day with low visibility we stuck to familiar terrain. If you’re looking to make the most out of your time on ski routes and the off-piste opportunities we suggest you utilize a professional\xa0guide and avi gear.''See our full ski and snowboard packing list here!''Madrisa''This is the most beginner friendly area of the Davos-Kloster ski resort. It is a tad bit difficult to reach if you’re staying in Davos as it requires a 30-minute train ride from Davos Platz to Kloster Dorf. However, the area is easy to explore and has modern lifts to get you around.''Rinerhorn''This mountain is slightly outside of Davos. It’s known for being a quiet mountain that is sure to offer a true mountain experience. Runs here are largely suited to an intermediate rider. Skiiers or riders can easily reach the resort via the bus and train free of charge with their ski pass. Non-skiers can take the lift to the upper terminus and take a short hike down into the valley.\xa0Every Wednesday and Friday night the lifts open up for night skiing and night tobogganing. Or you could always sit back relax and soak up the sun from the upper terminus.''Schatzalp/Strela''If you’re looking for a quiet ski area for a relaxing evening on the slopes then Schatzalp is the place to head. Runs here are not particularly difficult and it’s well known to be for those looking to ski slow. Schatzalp is for those looking to find the Alpine resorts of yesteryear where it’s about healthy living and connecting with the mountains – no apres ski here.''It’s all tied in with the classic hotel\xa0Schatzalp hotel that provides fantastic views over Davos.\xa0\xa0From the top of the funicular and the hotel, you can easily stroll around and enjoy the winter views. It’s also possible to walk down to Davos town from here.''Where to stay in Davos''Hotel Edelweiss''We really enjoyed our time at''Hotel Edelweiss''and it was easily one our favorite hotels in\xa0Switzerland. The two-star hotel is a lovely contemporary boutique hotel. While many hotels in the Alps can be dated we were pleasantly surprised by their modern and warm interior.''Contemporary themes can be found throughout the hotel and we loved having coffees in the reading lounge. The hotel has a sauna and it’s a short 10-minute walk to the Parsenn-Bahn.''The restaurant was one the best aspects of the hotel with a wonderful breakfast and hearty meals. We loved the fact they were able to accommodate us as vegetarians. It can be a struggle with many hotels in the Alps, but it’s always helpful to let the hotel staff know in advance.''Plan Your Trip to Davos,\xa0Switzerland''Hungry?''If you find that you are hungry in Davos but are on a budget head to one of the grocery stores. There is a Migros, Spar, and Co-Op all in the village center.''Wondering what to bring to Europe?''Check out our ultimate''Europe packing list.''For a detailed packing list for winter''check here!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the tap water in Switzerland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''Remember that Switzerland uses the\xa0Type J outlets, unlike the rest of Europe. Many adapters around Europe are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged. (This one works well in Switzerland).''Read Next:''Tips to the Perfect Austrian Ski Holiday in Vorarlberg''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''Skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria • 13 Things You Need to Know''Tips for the Perfect Switzerland Ski Holiday in Nendaz''March 24, 2018''10 Things to Know About Travel in Switzerland''March 8, 2018''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''March 6, 2018''A Ski Resort Guide To Davos-Kloster’s Pistes''was last modified:''March 2nd, 2018''by''Cameron''We have often had fun reading the roundup posts from fellow bloggers. After some thought and the frustration of leaving so many personal anecdotes out of our blog, we’ve decided to start writing monthly roundups.''If you’ve been following our''Instagram''you’ll know we’ve recently been braving the cold and enjoying a''winter in Europe''. We’re really braving the cold I should add, it’s currently -22°C, or -8°F, outside our Airbnb in British Columbia. January has been an interesting month for us with great highs and weird lows. We spent the entire month of January in Europe snowboarding, something we have been wanting to do for years.''It was simultaneously\xa0amazing and exhausting. Ever since we first left to travel the world in 2015 we had determined we wanted a base, but going into the third year of consistent travel and we have still not found a base or tried to settle down. For the start of 2018, we have a lot of travel planned and we won’t stop until at least April or May. Talk about a bit of travel fatigue!''Where we went in January''Edinburgh''We started off the new year in Edinburgh.''Scotland''has become one of our favorite countries in Europe and''Edinburgh one of our favorite cities''. So, when the festival team reached out to us about coming back to experience NYE in the city we jumped at the opportunity. Read more about our''experience at Hogmanay here.''Chris Watt.''Bankso, Bulgaria''Not wanting to ruin our time in the Alps we decided to head to Bansko, Bulgaria to warm up for our upcoming snowboard trip. Bansko was an interesting experience and we\xa0still can’t decide if it was a good call to head there.''Food was cheap and plentiful with good accommodation options. However, lift tickets were cheap at €35 a day, but when compared to parts of Austria or Italy that are €50 it’s tough to say the savings were worth the experience. Getting to the top of the mountain was a struggle every day as the one gondola almost always had two hour long lines. Not wanting to waste our time we opted to pay for a taxi to the mountaintop a few times driving the cost of our lift tickets up anyway.''Then once on top of the mountain, we were faced with the most crowded slopes we’ve ever seen. Our resort total is up to more than 20 so we’re not a stranger to the slopes… Tasha and I both witnessed multiple collisions and some angry Brits throwing punches at each other – no jokes. It was not a pretty sight.\xa0Speaking of ugly sights so was the bottom of the mountain resort in Bansko. It’s a mish-mash\xa0of cheap bars, rental shops, strip joints, half-finished buildings, and clubs with no clear sense of building ordinances.''With all that being said the slopes were in pretty good shape and the mountains of Bulgaria really are stunning! The mountain resort itself really is beautiful with some nice runs, they just need to limit how many lift tickets they sell by about 10,000.''Read more about the experience here.''Trentino, Italy''Oh, Italy! We have often shared our''love for the country''and it shouldn’t have been a surprise that we would be smitten by the Trentino region. After all, any mountain resort that allows you to ski on one of the most famed mountain ranges in the world while serving Italian food is sure to be a hit. That mountain range in case your curious is the Dolomites, and they are a stunning UNESCO World Heritage Site.''We had several days of fun exploring the slopes and plenty of wonderful food. We also had the best weather of our Europe trip in Trentino. Almost every day was sunny and the snow was in amazing condition.''Read more about our time in Trentino here!''Innsbruck, Austria''We had Innsbruck high on our list because the city is famed for its access to the surrounding mountains. It’s certainly a charming city with a colorful old town. However, the with whiteout conditions and lots of snowfall the mountain resorts were closed while we were there.''So, no snowboarding! Instead, we wandered around the old town and enjoyed some of the cities cafes with delicious strudels. Not so bad!\xa0We also had an awesome view from one of the best hotels in the city at Hotel Adlers – with a rooftop sauna.''Check out how cool Innsbruck is!''Lech am Arlberg, Austria''We were super excited to visit Lech am Arlberg as it’s widely considered one of the best ski resorts in the world. Those are some massive shoes to fill and we weren’t disappointed despite mixed weather. A serious winter storm was blowing into the area along with some wind. Never the less we headed up the mountain with our snowboard instructor who got us off-piste and gave us our first taste of the deep powder.''Gargellen, Austria''Almost a week in Austria and the winter storm was still going. With all that fresh snow our travels came to a halt in Gargellen, Austria.\xa0We’d never seen so much snow in our lives, and it kept coming down! Eventually, the only road out of Gargellen was closed due to the risk of avalanche and we were stuck there. What an amazing surprise that turned out to be! Gargellen is a wonderful little village with a beautiful mountain and a nice ski resort that is a part of the famous Montafon Ski Area. After a few days of complete whiteout conditions, our last day on the mountain was a bluebird sky and the mountain was full of powder. Ever since we’ve been dreaming of snow like we had in Gargellen.''Curious about Vorarlberg?''Malbun, Liechtenstein''We’ve been trying to check off all the of the countries in Europe so we’ve been visiting a number of its smallest nation states. It started earlier this year with a visit to the''Faroe Islands''and then''Luxembourg''in December. So, next up was the tiny nation of Liechtenstein in between Switzerland and Austria.''We traveled to the''tiny village of Malbun''which has Liechtenstein’s only ski area. It was a charming place with lots of fresh snow and extremely quiet runs. We also got to check something off the bucket list with llama trekking. Really we got to add something, then immediately check it off the bucket list. In case your curious yes our llamas had names and they were Balloo and Tully.''Grindelwald, Switzerland''We finally made it to Switzerland! This was my first time visiting the country and Tasha’s second time. Her first time here she came for a three whole days before quickly leaving after paying $40 for a rosti meal. Rosti is one of Switzerland’s national dishes, but it’s by no means fancy as it’s more or less hash browns with cheese. Yes, it is delicious and yes, it’s ridiculously expensive, as is everything in Switzerland.''After coming from three beautiful villages Grindelwald did not steal our hearts. The main street is lined with hotels, restaurants, and stores all geared for mass tourism. However, the view of the mountains above Grindelwald is nothing short of spectacular. Three massive mountains stand over the village including Eiger with it’s deadly Noth Face. Yep, The North Face brand is in reference to this famous mountain face responsible for claiming the lives of many climbers.''We opted to climb the mountains via cable cars, gondolas, chairlifts, and trains. Then we proceeded to explore the mountains from our snowboards. We had several wonderful days with great snow conditions, mild days, and sunny weather. Oh and we made it to “the top of Europe” at Jungfraujoch.''Read more about our time in Grindelwald.''Lucerne, Switzerland''We made a stopover in Lucerne to fill a gap in between Grindelwald and Davos our next stop. The train journey would take six hours or we could split in two by stopping in Lucerne. If one day can even count as a break. That night we splurged a bit and treated ourselves to a stay at the Rennaisance, Lucerne. Then went out to eat at Titbits a vegan/vegetarian buffet with some tasty food. We used to think Whole Foods has an expensive hot buffet, but with the conversion, it came to an eye-watering $17 a pound of food. No one said to travel in Switzerland was cheap!''Davos, Switzerland''We finished out January in Davos just after the World Economic Forum wrapped up. Luckily, Drumpf’s hot air didn’t melt all of the snow. Although, we did appreciate the massive “CLIMATE CHANGE IS REAL” stamped out in the snow in front of his hotel.''The village of Davos is by no means the most beautiful, but the ski resort is understandably one of the best in the world. We had a great time riding in Davos. With beautiful mountains and a ridiculous amount of easy to access slopes, it’s hard to beat. It was so fun that we ran ourselves down. Our first day of skiing we woke up for the special ski sunrise and rode until the lifts closed. The next day we both had a wicked cold, but decided to keep snowboarding since we lift passes and we were in the fricken Swiss Alps. The cold then ended up lasting a few more weeks.''Highlights''Spa at Rifugio Capanna Presena''We got to spend the night on top of a glacier with an amazing spa. To make matters better we were the only guests in the whole hotel. What a tremendous experience and one of our favorite evenings in Europe ever.''Rag N’ Bone Man''We had not heard of Rag N Bone Man before the NYE concert in Edinburgh. Apparently, he is very big in Europe, but hasn’t really made his way over to North America yet. After, his concert we were blown away by his amazing voice and talent. He had a massive stage to fill and did so with ease. He even rang in the New Year with a rendition of Auld Lang Syne, the classic Scots poem.''The Dolomites''I remember the first time I saw a photo of the Dolomites I knew I had to see them in person. I would never have guessed that I would not only see them but get to snowboard on them. What a dream come true!''Lech Powder Day''We’re still working on our skills as snowboarders. When we arrived in Lech we were still pretty green snowboarders, but with a guide and some encouragement, we left the pistes to find deep deep piles of powder. Riding in powder is like floating on a cloud and it’s enough to make a snowboarder out of anyone.''Stuck in Gargellen''With the winter storm raging we were stuck in Gargellen, Austria. At first, we felt bummed about having our plans sidetracked, but it didn’t take long to see the wonderful positive. With the mountain roads closed, we were stuck in a winter wonderland with our own private mountain.''Llama trek in Liechtenstein''There was pretty much no way that this was going to go wrong. I mean who doesn’t want to take a walk in the woods with a llama on the leash? Surprisingly they are super easy, extremely funny looking, and make for great buddies to walk in the woods.''Low Points''Bankso gondola''The lines for the gondola in Bankso became a pain in the ass. We were faced with three options, wake up at the crack of dawn every day and wait for the opening of the gondola, wait two hours in line, or pay for a taxi up to the mountaintop. We didn’t like a single option, but we went with the easiest and that meant spending money on a taxi cab which still ended up taking an hour because the cabbies would wait for the cabs to completely fill up with people.''That’s a line up the mountain…and yes it took two hours…''Snowstorm in Innsbruck''I had high hopes for Innsbruck, but apparently, it is possible to get too much snow.''Catching a cold in Switzerland''We got the better of ourselves in Davos. The lift tickets there include a special experience in which you can be the first of 12 up the mountain. We absolutely hate waking up before the sun, but couldn’t miss it to be first on the slopes for this special trip. The slopes were so nice this day we kept going until the lifts close. Then we got sick and felt rundown from the constant cold weather, constant travel, and constant activity. Yea…first world problems.''Travel Days''Would you believe it, but we’re getting tired of packing our bags up every few days. Sometimes we’re only in a place for the night before we have to move – it is getting exhausting. On average we moved every two to three days the whole month of January. We actually just got our own Airbnb with a washing machine and kitchen for the first time in two months. That means a lot of dirty clothes and eating out. We’re aiming to slow down later in this year.''The World Pursuit''Income''Thanks to the hard work we put in this summer our income has consistently increased every month. Our mid-year goal is to have the website earning at least five figures every month in passive income. Passive income is the money we generate through affiliates and ad-based marketing. It means we don’t have to actively work to be paid, and instead, we can concentrate on creating good content like''travel guides on our site''. We’re on track to hit that before summertime rolls around.''Readership''Since April of last year, our blog has increased in readership every single month. No gain was great as in January, which saw an amazing 125,000 unique people visit our corner of the web. That means a whole city reads our blog this month. WOW! It was the first time we felt the presence of our blog and we believe it will only go up from here.''Plans''We’re still chasing the endless winter with a lot more days on the slope planned. We’ll be in beautiful B.C. and Alberta for almost a month before heading south. We’ll visit Colorado and Idaho in the US. It’s our first time exploring these states and couldn’t be more excited. We’ve also considered setting up base somewhere out west, so although we are traveling and snowboarding we are also scouting out places to live. TBD.''Read Next:''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''Where Did January Take Us? Our Travel Experiences''was last modified:''February 27th, 2018''by''Cameron''Looking for the perfect Austrian ski holiday? We were too when we made our first trip to Austria. Many people choose to head for the hills in the summertime, but we were after some fresh snow. Something we found plenty of in the wonderful region of Vorarlberg.''Vorarlberg is the westernmost province in Austria and borders Switzerland. It has everything you could want from a''winter destination''. If you’re hungry for the slopes, like us, Vorarlberg has large resorts, intimate villages, and plenty of snow to go around.''Tips to the Perfect Austrian Ski Holiday''Pick up a guide''After visiting almost 20 different ski resorts in one season we have found without fail the best way to ensure we enjoy our day is to pick up a guide. Generally the larger the resort the more you will benefit from a guide/instructor. It doesn’t matter your ability level as even expert riders and professionals hire out a local guide who knows the mountain to show them the best places to head.''With fresh powder on our first day in Lech, we tackled some of Lech’s famous off-piste opportunities with our seasoned guide Berdnand. It was our first day of the season off-piste and we could not have asked for better conditions or terrain. The Vorarlberg region is famed for its off-piste opportunities with much of the skiable terrain above the treeline. All of this terrain is best accessed with the knowledge of a guide and proper safety equipment.''Our guide Roberto in Northern Italy''Rent or bring your own''There are a lot of factors to consider when it comes to bringing your own gear or renting ski and snowboard equipment. If you have your own equipment and are flying from overseas I would recommend to at least bring your boots as a carry-on. Nothing will fit like your own boots and quality boots like my Burton Raiders are designed to form fit around your feet.''If you’re flying to the destination it most likely makes sense to rent your gear. Flying with equipment can be a pain in the ass. You don’t need to assume rental gear will be the worst stuff ever as many rental shops have top quality gear and you can also demo the latest pro setups. As with many things in life you get what you pay for, pro gear is costly and the rundown gear is cheap.''That being said we do travel with our own gear, but we also put in 20 days on the slopes around Italy, Austria, and Switzerland. A lot depends on the length of your trip and how many days you’ll actually ride or ski. If you’re looking for a great snowboard bag we’ve been using the''Dakine Low Roller Bag.''If you’re a skier this''bag is great for traveling''. Also, as a tip, if you’re using a rental car you don’t need an SUV to get gear around just a standard vehicle with an open seat. We stick our gear upright in the seat with the tips under the front seat to avoid paying extra for a larger car.''Get off the slopes''If tackling the pistes or free ride options are not you’re calling there are other activities to give a try. There are a wide array of winter activities to enjoy in Vorarlberg.''Or you could strap on a pair of snowshoes and head deep into the woods or trails and get closer to nature. We spent an evening walking from Lech to the neighboring village of Zug for dinner. With a village atmosphere known for being excellent hosts, you can enjoy wonderful alpine food around the area.''There’s also a number of sled tracks which is always a blast. We didn’t take part in any of the tracks due to lack of time, but we’ve been sledding multiple times and find it’s something fun for everyone as you barrel down the mountain. It’s a particular highlight for a group of friends or families. Doesn’t matter your age just have some silly fun!''Cross-country skiing is big in the area with tracks all over Voralberg. Before heading to Gargellen we stopped by Bielerhoehe to take in the views of''Piz Buin.''The area is a stunning winter wonderland with glaciers and jaw-dropping mountain views. We spent an afternoon cross-country skiing on a number of tracks before being snowed off the mountain.''There is also a small area to ski and snowboard around as well as do some ski touring. In the summer multi-day hikes are also quite popular here. Piz Buin is accessible via gondola from the village of Partenen. Which can be easily reached within the Montafon region with an efficient bus system\xa0that connects the various ski areas and villages.''Just don’t assume the only thing you can to do on a ski or snowboard holiday is ski or snowboard. They’re often the best way for groups to have fun together because riding or skiing in a group can be difficult on the pistes. We’ve done all sorts of activities around the slopes and suggest you research the individual offerings of every village and resort.''Nail your transportation plans''Once you’ve settled on the destination you need to firm up flights and transportation. Vorarlberg can be accessed by the via international flights to Zurich, Munich, and Milan. In addition, smaller regional flights''operate out of Innsbruck,''Altenrhein, and Friedrichshafen.''We’re often big advocates of renting a car and driving ourselves from sight to sight. However, when it comes to a ski holiday in Austria we suggest sticking to public transport, taxis, and private transfers as it is quite efficient and definitely safer in winter. If you plan on renting your gear or want to save a buck public transport is amazing in the region with a network of trains and buses linking almost every village in Austria.''To reach Lech am Arlberg you can take a train to the\xa0Langen am Arlberg railway station then a bus (''bus 91'') or private taxi to the village. Or you can opt for private or public transfers from the airport. Zurich airport, for example, has a ski bus that will deliver you to Lech am Arlberg from Zurich for around €80 return. That comes out cheaper than renting a car and you’re not liable if you spin out into a snowbank.''Chase the snow''This may be a tough one for everyone as plans are often made well in advance. However, if possible it’s best to watch the weather and snow reports of the region and make your decision on where to base yourself. Both of the villages we chose to go in Austria are at a high elevation and virtually guarantee good quality snow, which we found plenty of! If you’re making late season plans look at the snowfall averages and who has had a good season before booking tickets.''Pick the right region''The key to a good vacation or holiday is to not overextend yourself. We travel full time and have made travel our job so we’re able to canvas a larger area, but with limited time its best to concentrate on one area. One of the best in Austria and Europe for that matter is Vorarlberg. Vorarlberg, Austria was an easy choice for us when we were planning our recent''Europe trip.''They have fantastic ski resorts and what is widely considered to be one of the best areas to ski in the world.''So once we settled on Vorarlberg we began to pick our destination (or destinations) within that area. We picked two of Vorarlberg’s best villages – Lech and Gargellen. Each with its own distinct feel. We chose Lech am Arlberg because it’s a massive resort that is well known for''being the best in the world''.\xa0While Gargellen is the lesser known resort that has a lot to offer for those looking to for a quiet mountain village.''Lech am Arlberg''If we were to pick one of our favorite resorts in Europe it would definitely be Lech Zurs Arlberg. The village ambiance is tough to beat due to a wide selection of boutique hotels all intimate in size due to strict ordinance laws. You won’t find any mega hotels or foreign investment in this former farming village.''It’s all distinctly Austrian with restaurants, hotels, bars, chalets, and B&Bs run by local families. Everything in the village is modern and luxurious but understated so you won’t be completely gobsmacked here. This charm is what continues to draw regulars from around the world year after year.''There are a limited amount of beds in Lech which in turn decrease the number of visitors on the slopes. We never had to wait in line here and rarely felt crowded on piste despite less than ideal weather closing many runs. And despite being well known for celebrities and royalty Lech puts on an open atmosphere for all to enjoy.''As Americans, we still can’t get over the fact that a lift ticket to one of the most famous resorts in the world costs only €55 compared to $100+ for average resorts in North America. Our first evening in Lech was magical as we wandered around the town snapping photos and ducking into a bar for a drink.''There’s a lot more to Lech than a beautiful village, it’s often credited as one of the birthplaces of alpine skiing. A wide array of pistes are connected with neighboring resorts to form the''largest ski area in Austria.''The pistes are well groomed with snowmaking capabilities – if they even have to use them due to regular snowfall every year.''To make matters only better they have awesome chairlifts. It’s tough to complain about a chairlift that is fast, covered with a bubble, and has seat warmers. Yes, you read that right, many of the chairlifts have seat warmers! Alpine sports were made for the region with a high elevation and terrain that begs skiers and snowboarders to ride.''Lech is famed for its freeride opportunities and as our first taste of off-piste, we were not disappointed with the fun terrain, deep powder, and fresh lines. We definitely recommend picking up a guide with intimate knowledge of the mountain to make the most out of your time on your Austrian ski holiday. The early bird gets the worm here at Lech, and the early risers are the ones likely to find untouched tracks.''Gargellen''Probably the best-kept secret in the whole region is Gargellen, and I must admit I’m even a little nervous to write about it and let it out! Gargellen is a wonderfully charming town that has no through traffic, so there are few day trippers and a strong locals vibe.''With only a\xa0couple of restaurants, bars, and hotels the village is anything, but overwhelming and that’s what makes it so special. The mountain village is located high up in the mountains and is the highest in the Montafon region with snow almost guaranteed. On our visit that couldn’t have been truer as the snow was piled high over our heads.''The same day we arrived in Gargellen, a large winter storm hit the area hard with a meter of snow forcing the roads to close. Everyone in Gargellen including ourselves was cut off from the world until roads were to open back up. It shouldn’t of come as a surprise as Gargellen sits at a high elevation and is only accessible via a long mountain road, so when the snow really falls here road closures can sometimes happen. Granted the last occurrence was sometime in 2011.''After two days of enjoying the heavy snow the skies cleared up and we were treated to a stunning mountain.\xa0Just behind the mountains lies Davos-Klosters in Switzerland. However, Gargellen draws a much smaller crowd than its Swiss neighbor. In good conditions, it’s possible for experts to take ski tours over to Switzerland for the day and in the summer hikers can follow in the footsteps of smugglers to the neighboring country.''We had several days on the mountain and had a chance to get familiar with the resort. It’s not massive in size, but it does offer a number of nice groomed pistes, ski routes (closed for us), and off-piste opportunities. As solid intermediate riders, we had a great time, but there is nothing challenging here for expert skiers unless they’re off to explore the mountains on a ski tour. What made our trip so amazing was a wonderful powder day on the slopes – a common occurrence with high elevation. It’s almost impossible to beat a powder day with sunny skies!''Get the right accommodation''Accommodation in Austrian ski villages is often small boutique hotels that offer wonderful and local service. These hotels are well appointed and offer an intimate experience. We love that many hotels offer the ability to book a room on half board. Half board is a great option as it simplifies your ski holiday. This supplies you with breakfast and dinner while you only have to pick where to have lunch on the slopes. Other features to look for when it comes to accommodation in the Alps is a dedicated ski room, sauna, and proximity to the slope.''In Lech am Arlberg we stayed at the wonderful''Das Georg.''It’s was charming and quirky with gold and purple portraits of Lech’s famous guests like Tina Turner and Princess Diana. The boutique hotel is tastefully decorated with modern appointments, a sauna, and ski room. Our room had a wonderful view of the mountain and village. After being snowed off a chilly mountain we enjoyed relaxing our legs in the wooden parlor along with some snacks and a coffee. The hotel does not offer a restaurant so there is no half-board option, but that is not a problem with plenty of restaurants in the village – just make sure to book reservations for dinner in Lech.''Our hotel, the''Alpenhotel Heimspitze'', in Gargellen has to be one of our favorite places we’ve ever stayed. The lovely staff and hoteliers could not have treated us better. The hotel is wonderfully charismatic with mountain charm and modern rooms. Most important to us, they had great food and a delicious breakfast – with delicious vegetarian options (hard to come by in the alps). If you’re looking for a low key holiday in a beautiful little Austrian village then come to Gargellen and stay this hotel. Trust me you won’t want to leave!''Pack right''Bring all your winter clothing items with you to Austria before you arrive, because if you find yourself needing a pair of mittens in a European ski town you’ll pay a steep price for them.''Here’s our guide to packing for a ski and snowboard trip,''which showcases an extensive list of items you’ll want to have. If you’re heading to big cities in Europe,''Decathlon''is a great option for finding outdoor gear at a reasonable price. We’ve been shopping here for years, and it’s safe to say it’s our favorite store in Europe.''Read Next:''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''15 Amazing Things to do in Innsbruck, Austria (+ Winter Options!)''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''The Best Winter Packing List for Europe and Beyond''Things to do in Grindelwald, Switzerland in the Winter''Visiting Malbun • How to Enjoy Winter in Liechtenstein''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Tips to the Perfect Austrian Ski Holiday in Vorarlberg''was last modified:''February 27th, 2018''by''Cameron''Looking for a few activities for couples in Cape Town? After two months in the city, we feel pretty confident we can share the best romantic things to do in Cape Town. It is the longest time as a couple we have spent in any one place that we were not actually living in. Needless to say, we fell in love with Cape Town and even now we are a little sad to be leaving. With two months in the city, we were certain to find some romance.''Cape Town has just about everything you need to make a happy life, great food, stunning vistas, friendly locals, and a plethora of''adventure activities''. That means there are a plethora of romantic things to do in Cape Town do with your significant other. Not one day was boring for us, so we wanted to point out some of the most romantic things for couples and individuals to do in''Cape Town''!''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town''Stroll through Kirstenbosch Gardens''A trip to Cape Town really isn’t complete without a stop at''Kirstenbosch Gardens''. Situated at the eastern foot of Table Mountain is the beautiful\xa0528 hectare garden with five of the six South African biomes. There is plenty to see and do here for the family; however, we loved having a romantic stroll on the treetop canopy. When our feet were planted back on the ground we spent the rest of the day strolling around the huge grounds and admiring the spectacular views of table mountain. I would recommend planning at least a half a day at Kirstenbosch, and to try and visit on a sunny day!''Date night at the V&A Waterfront''The Victoria & Alfred Waterfront is one of Cape Town’s shining stars and is definitely one of the main tourist attractions in the city. \xa0It’s the perfect place to visit on a nice day and stroll around the harbor, try some artisanal food, or go shopping for souvenirs.\xa0We always ended up at the waterfront on days where we had no idea what to do with ourselves.''There is always some form of entertainment here, and it is just a beautiful place to relax. We went to a few movies at the''Nu Metro''for the grand price of R65. And you can dine at some of Cape Town’s finest establishments, or go crazy in\xa0food lovers paradise inside the''Market on the Wharf.''If you’re looking for things to do in Cape Town at night this is probably your best option.''Get out to''Robben Island''While you’re at the waterfront you may as well book tickets to''Robben Island''. The waterfront is the “gateway” to Robben Island and all ferries leave from here to take visitors to the famous site where Nelson Mandela spent 18 years of his life. Once you get to Robben Island you will move to a guided bus tour which will take you to all the stops on the island. Towards the end of the tour, you will be met by a former inmate of Robben Island whom will walk you through the days of the past and show you some of the sad cells that political prisoners were forced to remain in. The whole Robben Island experience takes about 3.5 hours and costs R320.''Get out to Robben Island''Take a walk (or run) together on the Sea Point promenade''If you’re in the mood to take a walk somewhere then there is no better place in Cape Town than the Sea Point promenade. The promenade stretches for 11km around Seapoint overlooking the beautiful ocean. Along the way, there are outdoor fitness parks, installation art, and swimming pools. Perfect place to come for sunrise or sunset in Cape Town.''Experience Table Mountain''Chances are if you are a visitor to Cape Town there is no way you’ll be missing Table Mountain. The impressive mountain landmark truly defines the beauty of Cape Town and draws people in from all over the world. There are two ways to get up, the''cable car''or\xa0a nice hike. We did both and they are equally enjoyable! Once you are at the top, you will probably want a few hours to meander around, take in the views, and have a glass of champagne\xa0in the cafe at the top.\xa0There may be two ways up, but there are infinite ways down. Try''abseiling for an adrenaline rush''!''Head to the tip of Africa''Yes, you can get to the tip of Africa from Cape Town! Cape Point is located in the Cape of Good Hope Nature Reserve and is where the Atlantic and the Indian Ocean\xa0collide. There are some fantastic hiking trails, a\xa0cafe, a historic lighthouse, and even shipwreck alley. The cost to get into the reserve is\xa0R125, check the hours for today''here''.''Book a tour!''The Cape of Good Hope, South Africa''Watch\xa0the penguin show''What if I told you there was a place near Cape Town where you can watch thousands of penguins waddle, dance, and talk to you? Well, there is! Okay, they aren’t really “talking” to you, but they do make that noise that penguins make.\xa0A half-hour drive from the center of Cape Town is Boulders Beach, a beach where humans can observe wild''African penguins''at a ridiculously close range. This is one of the most fun things to do in Cape Town for couples! The cost to see the penguins is R65. It is a protected area of the Table Mountain National Park, and the penguin colony was reintroduced here and ever since then they have flourished. With nice boardwalks looping around the main beach, Foxy Beach, visitors\xa0can observe the funny birds without interfering with their natural way of life.''Have a romantic dinner in Cape Town''If you want a date night idea you can’t go wrong with dinner and drinks.''There is something to eat for everyone in Cape Town''. From sushi to Ethiopian cuisine, to a multicultural show with African flair there is no way you will go hungry in this city. So go enjoy one another’s’ company and have a romantic dinner out at one of the many nice restaurants in town. The best part about dinner out? Dining in Cape Town is incredibly affordable on an international level – so go ahead and get that extra glass of delicious''Stellenbosch wine''!''Put some color into your life!''If you’re on Instagram'', then chances are you have seen photos of the Bo-Kaap neighborhood\xa0of Cape Town. The brightly colored buildings of this Cape Malay neighborhood makes it a popular stop for tourists with cameras and one of the best places to go in Cape Town. Take some time and stop by to get your photos in! Bo-Kaap is within walking distance to the Cape Town CBD.''Get some adventure in''I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again, but there are some''serious adventurous things to do in Cape Town''. From Seal Snorkeling to Canyoneering, and even bungee jumping off the world’s highest bungee bridge there is no way you will go bored in this city. Go ahead and egg\xa0each other on to do something crazy. These adventures can turn into one of the most\xa0romantic things to do in Cape Town! And science does say physical activity together increases intimacy and communication.''Go Whale Watching!''Enjoy a weekend at the Bay Harbour Market''Every weekend at 31 Harbour Rd the town of Hout Bay takes on some of the finest bakers, artisans, artists, and food creators in Cape Town. You can come here to get just about anything to eat, but perhaps the fish is what many of the booths specialize in. Don’t come full or with an empty wallet because\xa0everything in sight looks delicious, and the handicrafts are unique.''Drive Chapman’s Peak''If you are without a car in Cape Town, I highly recommend renting one for at the least the day so that you can drive Chapman’s Peak. This is one of the world’s most scenic drives and is definitely worth the R42 toll to drive on this beautiful road together. One of the most romantic places in Cape Town is the''Tintswalo Atlantic''hidden along Chapmen’s peak. It’s definitely a splurge-worthy stay for a romantic weekend getaway in Cape Town.''Admire the street art''Woodstock is a hip neighborhood in Cape Town undergoing some serious gentrification right now. What does that mean? Amazing street art in the city! We enjoyed an afternoon of walking around and''snapping photos''of all the impressive street art in the area together. There are plenty of cafes to duck into including the Old Biscuit Mill, which is best visited on Saturdays.''Go on a Hop on Hop Off Tour''Only have a few days to explore the Mother City together? Perhaps taking a''sightseeing bus tour''of the city is the best bang for buck\xa0at R170. It may not seem like one of the most romantic things to do in Cape Town, and I know sometimes these tours seem a little touristy. However, it really is a great way of getting around the city together and visiting all the notable sites in the city.''Hike up Lion’s Head''A hike up Lion’s Head is much less effort than hiking Table Mountain, but with the same incredibly rewarding views. This is a must for anyone visiting Cape Town and is very popular with locals and tourists alike. The hike takes about two hours round trip and is best at sunrise and sunset!''Don’t forget a camera''– the views are incredible!''Head to Muizenberg''Muizenberg is right outside of Cape Town and is the heart and soul of surfing culture in South Africa. \xa0The vibe is even more laid back here than in Cape Town. There are dozens of cafes, yoga shops, and beach shacks to wander into. If you’re feeling adventurous then rent a surfboard and wetsuit and try a hand at surfing together. Be sure to check out one of the many yoga studios for some yoga on the beach!''Getting Around Cape Town''We came to Cape Town thinking it would be a big city with big city transport options available. This was NOT the case and there really is no efficient way to get around Cape Town. The best way to see all of the amazing things this city has to offer is by car.\xa0There are many options to rent in South Africa for an affordable price. Our partners, Happy Campers, are great for those looking to do a''short road trip around\xa0Cape Town''and South Africa.''Check out their rates here and use the code''TWP5''for a 5% discount!''Uber is also a really popular and safe option in the city and is incredibly affordable.\xa0 If you are on a major budget then the''MyCiti''bus is always available to get you to your destination. Is it your first time driving abroad?''Check out our tips!''Plan Your Romantic Trip to\xa0Cape Town''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cape Town:''Check out accommodation deals now!''Or to feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''At the time of writing we\xa0found the water in Cape Town fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''Read Next:''Buying a Car in South Africa and Being Undesirable''20 Things to Know Before Going to South Africa''Six Must See Places In South Africa''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Natasha''On our last European\xa0tour, we spent almost half of our time on a trip traveling the Balkans. From Albania to Romania, every country and location has something unique to offer. The Balkans are slightly less traveled than Western Europe, they are more affordable, and are filled\xa0with friendly locals. It all adds up to make one of\xa0our\xa0favorite regions to travel through in Europe. It’s hard to pick favorites, but here are our favorite Balkan cities to travel to, in no particular order. Not sure what or where or what the Balkans are? Read our''Balkan travel tips''post first.''10 of the Best Places to Travel in the Balkans''Ohrid, Macedonia''Cameron and I have a huge crush on Ohrid after visiting. We arrived by bus to Macedonia’s “crown jewel” with high expectations and were not disappointed. After spending time in the''interesting capital city of Skopje'', we needed to be one with nature in Ohrid. \xa0Ohrid is a small city\xa0that surrounds the northern edge\xa0of Lake Ohrid, which is\xa0possibly one of the most beautiful lakes we have ever seen. \xa0You can easily spend a few days here exploring the churches and relaxing in complete serenity along\xa0a quiet lake. A few days was not enough for us and we''ended up spending\xa0a week in Ohrid''. This city was one of our favorite destinations\xa0on our whole Balkan trip and we would add it to any Balkans travel itinerary.''Labin, Croatia''We spent six weeks in Croatia''and we liked\xa0every destination on our trip. However, while traveling around Istria we were completely inspired by the small town of Labin. Located about two hours away from Zagreb, and easily accessible by car we found the town of Labin to be splashed in different hues of orange, yellow, and pink. We only had a day\xa0here, but it was one of our favorite\xa0cities\xa0in Istria. There are\xa0cafes, art galleries, and restaurants to visit in between the never-ending search for the most beautiful door. Oh, and the elevated city\xa0provides some fantastic views overlooking Istria. Yes, there is more to do in Croatia on a Balkan trip than Dubrovnik and''the beautiful island of Hvar.''Sarajevo, Bosnia & Herzegovina''The''capital of Bosnia & Herzegovina''is not just one of the best Eastern European cities, but for me, it is the best capital city in all of Europe. I visited back in 2013, and ever since have recommended it time and time again to anyone traveling the Balkans. Despite being the brunt\xa0of a brutal civil war in the 90’s; however, the city is now thriving with culture. Sarajevo has been called the “Jerusalem of Europe,” because of it’s strong religious identity. This is the only place I have ever been where I came across a mosque, synagogue, Catholic church, and Orthodox within five minutes walk of each other.''Perast, Montenegro''Kotor is a gem hidden away in Montenegro.''The only bad thing about this gem is that it’s not so hidden anymore. These days, Kotor is pummeled with tourist, cruise ships, and overpriced restaurants. Don’t get me wrong, it’s still beautiful, but we had to get out of the tourist zone before losing our heads. A 20-minute bus drive away from Kotor is Perast. Perast is a quaint\xa0waterfront town with a population with less than 400 inhabitants. Okay, it’s not a city, but it’s within the Kotor municipality so we’re including it (we’re allowed to bend our own rules). There are only a few cafes, and museums, winding streets. We loved escaping here for the day to have a nice quiet cafe overlooking the Bay.''Ulcinj, Montenegro''Anyone traveling up from Albania will pass\xa0through Ulcinj, and it is worth the stop on your Balkan trip. Ulcinj is located just past\xa0the Albania-Montenegro border but is populated by mostly Albanians. Ulcinj has a charming old town overlooking the ocean and has probably some of the prettiest beaches in Montenegro. We decided to stay in Ulcinj over Budva because of the sheer amount of tourism that Budva receives. With beachfront bars, seafood restaurants, and clean beaches I will not say that Ulcinj didn’t house any tourists, but it is\xa0far less than in Budva.''Varna, Bulgaria''We went to Varna on\xa0a whim while traveling by train to Istanbul, and have never gotten over the delicious Black Sea mussels. Hate to say it, but Varna is a major tourist destination\xa0for Europeans and is known as one of the best eastern European cities for partying. Although, us being American, most people could not understand why we would ever visit''Varna''. Varna is your typical beach side tourist vacation spot, with clubs bumping into the night and topless beach goer’s strolling around during the day. We spent our days bathing in the Bulgarian Black Sea, drinking cheap screwdrivers, and eating an endless amount of mussels. (The mussels are the region’s specialty and one our favorite seafood dishes. For an affordable beach vacation in the Balkans, Varna is\xa0a great place to start.''Brasov, Romania''Brasov was another destination that we traveled to on the spur of the moment but ended up getting lost in the uniqueness of Transylvania. Brasov is positioned in the Carpathian Mountains making it an excellent\xa0winter destination. It also has very mild summer temperatures making it a great place to escape some of the bolstering heat in other European cities. Winter sports and temperatures aside, Brasov is close to the Bran Castle, or better known as one of \xa0“Dracula’s Castles.”''Belgrade, Serbia''We had to settle down somewhere to take a break from the constant traveling life (yes, travelers need breaks too) and figured that''Belgrade didn’t look bad for a month''. Nowadays, I think about how much I miss living in our big two bedroom apartment in the''cafe district''of the capital city. We spent a month gobbling down sushi, learning about Tito, exploring the underground tunnels that are located throughout the city, and going to ballet every three nights. We also found the nightlife here to be unbeatable, it’s no wonder it’s rated as one of the best eastern European cities for nightlife. Belgrade is, in short, a cultural, trendy, and\xa0artistic city that we found worthy of at least a few days of exploration, or settling down for a month like us!''Tirana, Albania''Albania may be one of the most underrated destinations and should be a stop on anyone traveling the Balkans. Not many people in Albania speak English, transportation is a complete mystery and pain, and it is one of the least developed countries in Europe. Regardless of these minor set backs Albania\xa0simply amazed us and is single-handedly one of the best Eastern European cities to visit. When we arrived in the capital city, we felt like we had completely departed Europe. Tirana feels more like a European Bangkok. Tirana is packed with things to do and see, good eats, and amazing coffee shops (we are coffee snobs).''There are three important highlights to note about Tirana.''Tirana, and Albania packs in some of the most helpful people ever. I believe they are happy to see foreigners traveling their country.''Tirana is a cheap European capital city, and you can easily live like a king here with\xa0a basic budget.''Tirana is a''very''colorful city. Thanks to''Tirana’s former mayor, Albania’s current prime minister, who ordered the painting of many old socialist buildings to liven up the city. We spent one entire day just snapping photos of vibrant buildings.''Bled, Slovenia''I know there is some debacle about including Slovenia in a post about the Balkans. As described in an earlier post, we have decided to define the Balkans as more of a cultural region rather than being bound by geography, therefore, Slovenia stays! We camped out in the''modern capital city Ljubljana''for awhile before''traveling to the countryside along the Croatian border''. Somewhere in between was Bled, a popular Slovenian city that surrounds beautiful Lake Bled. Bled is surrounded by the Julian Alps providing visitors with stunning views over the lake. It is perfect for backpackers, honeymooners, retirees, and any kind of traveler you can image.''Bled has the scenery'', cream cake, and outdoor activities to make the perfect Balkan trip travel destination.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0The Balkans''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'', or to feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''Have you traveled to any country in the Balkans?''You May Also Like:''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''The Honest Cost to Backpack Through Europe''Skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria • 13 Balkan Ski Holiday Tips''The Europe Packing List You’ll Need This Summer 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''April 12, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Traveling the Balkans? Here are 10 Must See Balkan Cities''was last modified:''April 24th, 2018''by''Natasha''After crossing off''Luxembourg''and''Liechtenstein''off the list we have almost visited every country in Europe. Not too bad for still being under 30 and traveling slowly. It’s our most traveled region and for good reason. Europe is well-known paradise for culture buffs, cafe lovers, and even outdoor enthusiasts.''We’ve been hopping around the continent for years, and every time we return we realize there is so much more to be discovered. Although we love to chase adventure and enjoy outdoor activities, it’s nice to explore a city for a bit. We need to get that cappuccino fix somewhere.''This February we left Europe for good and in honor of that we’re sharing five awesome city breaks. So, keep an eye out for these five great cities to check out on your Europe trip!''Basel, Switzerland''The Swiss have long prided themselves on their value of art, design, and healthy living. If there’s one place to go and feel immersed in this “Swissness” it’s Basel. It may be one of Switzerland’s most underrated tourist destination and is also one of the most important cities in the country.''Architecture buffs will revel in Basel’s buildings as the city combines a nice blend of Roman, contemporary, and Renaissance. The city is also home to more than 40 museums, a lovely old town, and an invigorating arts scene. It’s also just stone’s throw away from the Jura mountains which are perfect for an active European city getaway.''Where to stay?''Given that this is Switzerland, business and culture go hand in hand and one of the best places to stay in Basel to experience true''Swiss hospitality''is the\xa0Swissotel Le Plaza Basel. All guests have access to a complimentary BaselCard to go experience the city here.''Sofia, Bulgaria''We’ve managed to only pass through Sofia a few times in the past five years. Most recently we arrived in Sofia while in transit to our''ski holiday in Bansko'', and five years ago on our way to a beach holiday in Varna. Both times we wished we had longer than just a few nights to explore. Why? The city is a vibrant Eastern European capital and has plenty to do and places to eat all at an affordable price.''They have a great public transport system which is exactly\xa0what you need for a city break. Make sure to check out St. Alexander Nevski, the Balkans second largest cathedral and the\xa0Church of St George, which is the oldest building in Sofia from the 4th century.''Where to stay?''Check out the brand new Swissotel Sofia that is set to open this year.''Tallinn, Estonia''We visited Tallinn on a''day trip from Helsinki last year''and fell in love. The historical city center is full of cobblestone streets and medieval houses that transport you in time. Yet, in contrast to its pleasant historical center the city a bustling center for startups. Here young tech businesses share space with hip bars, restaurants, coffee shops, art galleries, breweries. and restaurants.''It’s the perfect spot for history lovers who still crave traveling in style. During the winter Tallinn plays host to a fabulous Christmas\xa0market with live folk dancers. It’s also fun to walk on the city walls and step inside the\xa0beautiful\xa0Alexander Nevsky Cathedral.''Where to stay?''Luxury and traditional Swiss Vitality meet at the 5 star Swissotel Tallinn. Guests here have access to\xa0a heated indoor pool with sauna and steam room and a state-of-the-art fitness club as well as healthy dining options at one of their three restaurants. We love that the''Swissotel''has taken step towards a sustainable future. The Tallinn property supports many local charities and nonprofits\xa0like the Stonian Cancer Society.''Bodrum, Turkey''Bodrum has to be one absolute favorite city in Turkey. Actually, we love it so much we spent nearly a month there in 2015! It’s easy to reach by plane from Istanbul to a nearby airport. The resort town on the southern Aegean coast is a top holiday destination for Turks and international tourists from around the world – and for good reason!''The city is littered with history and is home to remains of one of the''Seven Wonders of the Ancient World'', the\xa0Mausoleum of Halicarnassus. If you’re not a history buff then it’s easy to just head to the beach and soak up the sunshine. There are also plenty of cafes and delicious\xa0restaurants serving up delicious coastal food along the beach. One of the best parts about\xa0a holiday in Bodrum is the climate. Bodrum boasts mild temperatures all year round. We visited in November, and although we weren’t in the water we were still walking around in comfortable summer clothes during the day.''Where to stay?''Swissotel Bodrum Beach is couple friendly and one of the very best places to stay in the area. The resort is beach front\xa0and every room has a balcony to enjoy the mesmerizing views.''Check out their best rates here.''Amsterdam, Netherlands''There is a reason Amsterdam tops many travelers list and likely needs no introduction. Known as the''Venice of the North''because of its hundreds of canals Amsterdam is nothing short of impressive and a must see while in Europe. Whether you’re into history and architecture, partying, or just enjoying the views from a European cafe there is something here for everyone.''A summer day in Amsterdam is near impossible to top in any other city. Our favorite thing to do in Amsterdam is to simply sit canal side in a quiet neighborhood, like Jordaan and enjoy a cold Amstel. Or you could do even better with a boat cruise. If you’re looking for traditional sights check out the Anne Frank House, Rijksmuseum, and Van Gogh Museum.''Where to stay:''Swissotel Amsterdam is a four-star boutique hotel surrounded by some of Amsterdams best sights. It’s inspired by its Dutch location but doesn’t stray away from its Swiss roots and hospitality.''Read Next:''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''Things to do in Grindelwald, Switzerland in the Winter''Tipping in Europe: Tips on Restaurant Etiquette''The Perfect Europe Packing List • Don’t Forget This Stuff!''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Five Amazing European City Breaks and Where to Stay''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''No need to stress over packing for winter travel.\xa0A winter packing list can be hard to draft up as you want to keep your luggage as light as possible, but don’t want to freeze to death in flip-flops and a t-shirt. With winter weather it’s best to make sure your bags are packed well.''The key to packing for winter travel are layers and small accessories. The comfortable and warm is your number one goal for traveling in the winter.''When you first start packing it may seem impossible to fit all your bulky clothes into your bag, but it is possible to pack light and stay warm.\xa0If you’re heading to Canada, the Alps, or even New York City you’ll stay warm with our winter packing list.''The Ultimate Winter Packing List''The Winter Essentials''Winter Jacket''I have to emphasize''one''here. Winter jackets are often heavy and take up a lot of space. As much as you may want to bring a few different winter jackets for options it’s best to settle on just one. Plan to wear the jacket on the plane as a heavy winter coat can easily occupy half your luggage.''A good winter jacket should be waterproof, windproof, warm, and have a hood. A solid shell is important as it’s your first line of defense between you and the cold. You’ll be wearing this winter jacket just about every day so make sure you like it.''If you stick with a neutral color it provides more outfit options. Black goes with anything and everything so whether you’re a boy or a girl it’s a good color option. With mild winter destinations, you will be able to get by with a''packable down jacket'', as they are warm, lightweight, and weatherproof.''For those on an''active ski or snowboard trip'', bright colors are a little more acceptable, but once you leave the ski resort you will stand out. I sure do in my bright pink and orange jacket and occasionally I wish I had just picked a neutral color like black, white, or grey.''Your favorite sweater''On every winter packing list, a sweater should be a high priority. We invested in proper wool sweaters, but good quality winter weather pays off in cold temperatures.''A sweater serves as a mid layer, and a good warm one can be worn day in and day out. At night when your relaxing, or during the day when out on the town.''Wool sweaters''are my favorite because they are warm, stylish, and high quality.''We both set out to find hand knitted wool sweaters while in''Scotland,''but you can find some nice ones online too!''Boots''You really can’t go wrong with a good pair of boots in the winter. If you’re traveling around cities you’ll want to look for something that is stylish, waterproof, and warm as it can get slushy with gloomy urban weather.''The great part about a good pair of leather boots is that they go with everything, and could be the only shoes you bring on your winter vacation.''Women’s Boots''//''Men’s Boots''Heavy duty boots''These are only necessary if your vacation involves cold weather snow activities. Things like sledding with the family,''skiing or snowboarding,''and trekking through the forest are all good reasons to pack a good pair of heavy duty non-slip boots that rise up higher than the ankle – you don’t want a foot full of snow!''Women’s''//''Men’s''Socks''I recommend packing at least three pairs of heavy-duty socks. It may sound gross, but I wear one pair of socks out for three to four days before a wash. It’s important to remember in cold weather you sweat less so you’ll get more wears out of base layers.''However, it all depends on the individual just don’t assume you need a pair for every day of the week. I recommend buying''high-quality merino wool socks''. They come with a high price tag, but they’ll keep you warm, resist moisture, and last longer than cheap cotton socks.''It’s understandable if you don’t want to spend a lot on socks (I mean they are socks for goodness sake!). In this case, buy one to two pairs of quality socks and then throw a''few synthetic socks''in your bag for good measure.''Winter Accessories''If you’re traveling in the winter you’ll want to make sure to throw at least one hat, one scarf, and one pair of gloves or mittens into your bag. I travel with a hat and''ear muffs''(for ponytail days), one pair of mittens and one pair of''heavy-duty gloves''for winter activities, and a''neck gaiter''that serves as my scarf. A scarf is stylish, but a neck gaiter or facemask is better for skiing and snowboarding at low temperatures.''My favorite travel shirt!''The Winter Clothing''Jeans''Jeans go with anything, and despite the notion, they are “American” casual you can’t deny that they go with everything. I see jeans everywhere I travel as well, and it’s definitely not just Americans wearing them.''We stick with the classic look in jeans. That means fitted jeans that are a dark color. No fades, light blues, or rips!''Leggings''No matter what season or where I am going there is always a pair of leggings in my suitcase. Leggings are great underlayers, but they also go well with any dress or long top. Get black leggings for traveling as they don’t show stains and go with everything. The best part about leggings is that they are super comfortable and light.''I travel with five pairs of leggings and they take up minimal space. Five sounds like a lot, but it’s safe to say I wear leggings''every day''in the winter and fall.''Fleece lined leggings like these''are the best in winter and last forever (seriously, I replace them every two years). On really cold days I’ll just double up on leggings.''Vest''Vests are a great way to keep your body warm without overheating. A good black or white one goes with any undershirt and also appears stylish when walking around ski villages and other winter destinations.''Women’s Vest''//''Men’s Vest''Flannel shirt''Flannel shirts are great mid layers for both men and women. They provide warmth and go well with vests. I wouldn’t say a flannel is “city stylish,” but they are definitely fantastic if you are out on an adventure in the mountains.''Men’s''//''Women’s''Thermal Layers''Underlayers are what will be the closest to your body. They provide your first stage of warmth and will maintain your body heat. These include camisoles for the ladies, long sleeved thermals, and technical clothing for both sexes as well.''I travel with a few pairs of camis to wear under my sweater, as well as two pairs of''long sleeved underlayers''for active days.''Fleece''Patagonia fleeces''are what I wear as a mid layer when active. I don’t want to ruin my cute sweaters when I’m playing in the snow or snowboarding so heavy duty, flexible fleeces are what I wear day in and day out.''Purchasing the right travel backpack for Europe can make your life a lot easier! If you’re city hopping between\xa0Dublin, Paris, Amsterdam, and Rome you need the perfect bag. However, finding that perfect pack can be tough with a plethora of options available on the market. On our first backpacking trip around Europe, we used traditional hiking packs but found them to be a pain and not suited for the style of travel.''Since then we’ve managed to accumulate a collection of various packs for different travel styles. That means we have one backpack for hiking in Sweden and another pack for city hopping between. In this post, we break down the differences between panel loading bags, top loading backpacks, and non-traditional bags. That way you can choose the perfect backpack for traveling Europe. These are all of our personal recommendations after years of European travel.''Table Of Contents''Best Travel Backpacks For Europe''Top Loading Backpacks''Panel Loading Backpacks''Non-Traditional Backpacks''Understanding Different Styles Of Travel Backpacks''Which Travel Backpack Style Should You Buy?''Travel Backpacks for Europe''Best Top-Loading Backpacks for Europe''Osprey Atmos 65 AG Men’s:''This is the pack I carry. It’s large size works well for those who will the wide range of climates in Europe. The suspension system in the bag is also top of the line, I haven’t found a pack that fits better on my back. My largest complaint is it’s\xa0a\xa0rather odd shape, weight, and inability to stand up on its own due to an internal frame.''However, it is rugged and carries heavy weight effortlessly. I chose this pack also for a number of long-term treks I plan to do on our journey around the world, something I would not feel comfortable with a travel pack. Backpacker Magazine even gave it the 2015 Editors choice for the best multiday backpack.''Toss in your''favorite packable down jacket'', hammock and''travel camera''and prepare to conquer mountains!''Purchase Backpack Here!''Osprey Aura AG 65 Pack – Women’s''Osprey knows how to design a pack and with the new antigravity system this pack feels great on your back. It’s the women’s version of the Atmos, and is said to fit like a glove.''It’s an easy choice for the best backpack for women. We love the comfort of this bag since it is an accomplishment to fit the female figure.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Gregory Baltoro''This pack may not be as fancy as the Atmos and its antigravity system, but it has some great features to give it a run for its money. Things such as a removable daypack, a weatherproof pocket for electronics, pivoting belt, integrated rain cover, and u-zip pockets that give easy access to the body of the pack make this pack a great choice. Gregory is a great company that stands behind their gear.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Deuter Act Lite 6o Women’s:''A great pack option for the more adventurous woman. This pack has a comfortable fit, solid construction, internal frame, and a multilayer hip belt. We’ve picked a handful bags that are well suited for women and this is another great option.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Best Panel-Loading Backpacks''Osprey Porter''You’re probably noticing a theme by now, but we love Osprey backpacks for travel in Europe. The pack is well constructed and leaves plenty of room for all of your clothes. The bag is lightweight and easy to throw off your back when you hop on a bus or train. This may be the best travel backpack for Europe.''The only problem with this bag is it’s not as robust so those who like to walk or cover distance the backpack will get uncomfortable. That being said it’s one of the cheapest Osprey backpacks you can buy which means you have more budget for your backpacking trip in Europe.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Osprey Farpoint\xa070''This has become the golden standard for travel packs. With a big easy access zip, solid suspension for hopping around cities, lightweight, a removable daypack, zip-away suspension, and a side handle to top it off.''For the new digital nomad traveler, this pack is a terrific choice. The only drawback of the pack is the less comfortable suspension and its unisex design. However, it’s portability makes it an awesome choice for the best women’s backpack or men’s.''It’s also awesome for''carry on luggage''as we named smaller sized 40L version of this bag is also our pick for the''best carry on backpack''.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Cabin Max Metz Backpack''Okay, so I have referenced a lot of expensive packs. The cabin max is more or less the Osprey porter, but at less than half the price. It’s not backed by some great company with an “All Mighty Guarantee,” but it certainly gets the job done and at a fraction of the price.''It is highly reviewed on Amazon and its rugged construction suggests it will indeed hold up in the long-run, or at least until you get your money out of it. This is a great option for a travel backpack in Europe.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Non-Traditional Bags For Europe''Patagonia Black Hole Duffle''Have we mentioned that we''love Patagonia before''? We’re avid fans of the companies products and it’s likely anyone who’s big into outdoor adventure sports is loves them too. The Patagonia Black Hole bag is one of the largest of the Patagonia brand and perfect for extensive travel.''The bag\xa0can pack down small when empty so it’s great to stick in your\xa0bag. It was also plenty easy to stuff and organize,\xa0thanks to the large U-shaped zipper and\xa0two mesh pockets on the top flap.''Check the prices here!''eBags TLS Mother Lode Weekender''Is this a convertible bag? I’m throwing it into the realm of front-loading. It claims to have a lifetime guarantee, has a great organization system, glowing reviews, and it’s carry on friendly.''This is another viable option for those looking for a no-fuss bag and to escape the inconveniences of traditional suitcases or a large hiking bag.''Purchase Backpack Here!''Osprey Ozone Convertible''This bag has a hefty price tag on it and is a newcomer on the scene, but it looks very promising. Similar build to the Farpoint, with the added addition of a more compact frame and a pullout handle with wheels.''It may not be for every European traveler, but I’m certain this bag is the perfect fit for someone. (Digital Nomad?)''Purchase Backpack Here!''Styles Of Travel Backpacks for Europe''When it comes to backpacks there are three main types and each comes with its pros and cons. The three general styles of the backpack are top-loading, panel loading, and non-traditional backpacks. Let’s take a look at all three to weigh their various advantages and disadvantages. It’s important to pick the right style to have the best travel backpack for Europe.''Top-Loading Backpacks:''These are generally the most common backpack used by travelers in Europe. However, it may not be the most convenient. It is slim lined and very comfortable for those long treks.''The problem, or strength, lies in the fact that these backpacks were not created for those traveling the world, but those on multiday hikes with their packs on all day. This leads to a durable pack that is lightweight, comfortable, and waterproof.''Pros of Top-loading backpacks:''Durable: A decent top-loading pack is designed to withstand the elements.''Drawstring opening: These packs are designed to last and to be waterproof. So things like zippers aren’t used.''Comfort: These packs are built for comfort on long hikes and are made for the adventurous. Meaning long walks when moving locations are easier.''Flexibility: These packs are probably the most versatile since they are purpose built for multi-day hike trips that allow for you to bounce between urban and natural landscapes.''Waterproof: Another reason to love the design of a top-loading pack is the waterproof capabilities.''Cons of top loading backpacks:''Packing: The top-loading feature can make packing and unpacking a pain. Meaning if something is at the bottom of your pack, you better start digging.''Checked baggage: These bad boys can be large and often can’t fit in overheads meaning you get hit with additional baggage fees.''Straps: The straps hang all over the place. They might be helpful for hiking the Rockies, but not so helpful when throwing under a coach bus.''Awkward: They’re designed for riding on your back, not for waiting on a metro platform. My top-loading pack is wonderful on my back, but due to its shape cannot stand upright on its own.''Sore thumb: With a top loading pack on there is almost no chance of looking like a local. You’re pretty much pegged for being a tourist right off the get-go, which can be a nuisance.''Panel Loading Backpacks:''Panel-loading backpacks are purpose-built for the traveler on the go and are a great option. Their design is similar to a traditional suitcase. They fully unzip giving easy access to your stuff. They have a sleek design without all the straps that are likely to get hung up, making it easy to throw them in an overhead compartment or under a bus.''Many of these packs are often designed to meet checked baggage standards. These packs are quickly becoming the traveler’s favorite bag. They’re very well adapted for transitioning\xa0between urban environments making them one of the best backpacks for Europe.''Pros of Panel\xa0 Loading Backpacks'':''Size, not having to worry about having to check your bag is a big plus. The majority of these packs come in a size designed to be carry-on friendly.''Easy access, with a compartment that fully opens to give you access to your clothes and whatever else you carry. This is the big one, making packing and unpacking a breeze.''Side handles, this may seem like such a small thing, but as a frequent traveler, I can attest it is not. A side handle makes hopping on off public transportation, running through the airport, or just carrying your pack around much easier. You do not need to worry about clubbing that woman behind on the subway with your massive pack on.''Compartmented, these packs have more compartments built in so you can organize your stuff much better.''Cons of Panel Loading Backpacks:''Comfort, the design of these packs is both a positive and negative much like the top-loading packs. In order to keep a low profile, the back straps are often thinner and not as comfortable. Ouch.''Zippers, the biggest weak point on panel loading packs is the use of a zipper as the main way to access your goods, meaning they run the risk of breaking over time. Especially on a particularly rough trip.''Weight distribution, these packs are similar in shape to a suitcase and not exactly good for long distances on your back. The ergonomics and weight distribution just aren’t there.''Non-Traditional Backpacks''This is a wide range of packs some purpose-built for travel while others like duffel bags are purpose built for a different task. I love duffle bags for shorter trips and they have established themselves as favorites for adventure sports enthusiasts. These packs are extremely varied since no real design seems to reign supreme different companies have different styles.''It really depends on individual comfort when it comes to determining which bag is right for you. I’ve seen a few interesting designs that may work well for a traveler who’s on the go with short weekend trips. I personally don’t see a ton of practicality extending beyond that. For me, a traditional bag, or duffel bag are far more stylish and just as practical, but to each their own.''Which travel backpack style is for you?''Deciding on the pack style really comes down to what kind of traveler you are. It depends on what you’re looking to do and where you’re going. Some need a heavy-duty bag, while others need comfort, and then you have the slower moving travelers. If you need help purchasing the backpack read''how we save money for travel''.''There really is no way to go wrong with what is your\xa0world travel backpack. It’s all about personal preference and where you are in life. As a twenty-five-year-old guy, outdoor activities are very appealing to me, not to mention I feel I have a strong back so carrying around a top-loading pack was my choice.''So what suits you? I’ve broken down each pack and who they may appeal to, there’s no right or wrong here though (maybe hiking the alps with a convertible pack isn’t a good idea, but anyone doing that knows that already).''Top-Loading'': Adventure enthusiast. Hiking. Likes to walk and hitch-hike. Long haul.''Panel-loading'': Quick moving. Mostly moving from city to city or town to town. Long haul.''Convertible'': Going with the flow isn’t your style. You need something that addresses your travel needs like a digital nomad.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Europe''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''We like to use''Hotels.com''in Europe to make sure we are getting the best possible deal. However, if we’re looking to feel a bit more at home in Rome or Budapest we go with Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Packing:''Make sure you go prepared and have the right stuff packed for your trip to Europe. Check out our''Europe packing list''for more information.''Read Next:''The Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff''Best Packable Down Jackets''Best Travel Cameras''The Best Passport Wallets To Protect Your Travel Documents''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Best Travel Backpacks For Europe • Our Top Picks to Save Your Back 2018''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''If you’re looking for some awesome spots to swim or get your tan on then''Cyprus''is your country! The small island country is full of beautiful beaches and undiscovered coves.''Cyprus boasts\xa0a warm Mediterranean culture that is sure to welcome you to\xa0their gorgeous sandy beaches and rocky coves. We ventured around the country for a month in search of the very best beaches in Cyprus. It’s a stunning part of the world and you’ll want to be sure to pack a''great travel camera''in your''carry on bag''and get ready for some fun in the sun.''The 10 Best Beaches in Cyprus''Nissi Beach,\xa0Ayia Napa''Nissi Beach is probably the most well-known beach in Cyprus, and justifiably so. The beach has a bit of notoriety for being a wild party, and it is. The beach bars blast music while serving drinks to a young crowd in the peak season. In the off-season, the beach slows down and, at least for us, starts to shine. Nissi Beach is essentially a long sandy bay with shallow and crystal blue water; it’s beautiful and has a distinct shape to it. The bay is a wonderful place to take a dip in calm waters.''Check for Hotels in the Area!''Cape Greco,\xa0Ayia Napa''This may not exactly be a beach, but for the anyone wanting to beat the crowds of people sweating it out in beach chairs, this is the place to go. The cliffs around Cape Greco are perfect for lounging in the sun and on calm days you can climb down to go swimming in the sea caves. For the adventurous beach goers, you can also take leaps off the cliffs into the water from about 10 meters up. Jumping from the cliffs was my favorite thing we did in all of Cyprus.''Try Airbnb in Ayia Napa!''Aphrodite’s Rock, Paphos''Known as Petra Tou Rominou. Legend has it\xa0that the rock formation just off this Cyprus\xa0beach\xa0is the birthplace of the goddess of love, Aphrodite. The beach itself is made of smooth stones, and can be a nice change of pace from the typical sand beach. The water can be a little rough so swimming may not be the best idea for all, but sunsets here are spectacular. We traveled here just to catch it at sunset, and the whole experience here was breathtaking and certainly worthy of being the best beach in Cyprus.''Check for hotels!''Coral Bay, Paphos''Just outside of Paphos this long sandy stretch has something to offer all. Waves here can often be wavy, but a blast to swim in for those capable. The strip also offers plenty of water sports to keep the adventurous entertained for hours. This is the perfect''beach for families''with plenty of space get away from the areas crowded below the cafes/bars.''Airbnb is great in Paphos!''Konnos Bay,\xa0Ayia Napa''Ever imagined soaking up the sun in a moon shaped beach hidden at the bottom of a forested hill? At Konnos Bay, that dream can become a reality. It is a picturesque beach quickly gaining the attention of tourists and locals. It’s perfect for a day at the beach with family or loved ones. The water in the photo? It truly is that color – you don’t need to spend a fortune on a''vacation in the Seychelles''or French Polynesia to enjoy this. The café overlooking the beach is also a must; it’s a terrific place to enjoy a nice cold Frappe.''Check for Hotels in the Area!''Fig Tree Bay, Protaras''In strong contention for being one of the best beaches in Cyprus, Fig Tree bay is quickly gaining popularity. Fig Tree Bay is overlooked by the purpose-built town of Protaras offering visitors access to the beach, and the surrounding area which includes Konnos and Cape Greco. Protaras may not be as wild as its neighbor Ayia Napa, but still has a lot to offer those looking for some drinks after a day basking in the sun.''Check here for hotels in the area''Lara Bay,\xa0Akamas Peninsula''This beach is not an easy one to get to, but the journey is worth it. Lara Bay is set out far onto the Akamas Peninsula, an undeveloped part of the island. You’ll likely need a high clearance vehicle to get out to the beach, or just brave it in a rental car like us (wouldn’t suggest that one). The drive itself meanders along the coast giving a glimpse of the undisturbed regions of Cyprus. If you’re lucky you may even spot some wildlife. We caught a glimpse of some wild mountain rams!''The sandy beach has turquoise waters, an abundance of vegetation, and turtles. The entire beach is actually dedicated to the famous loggerhead turtle so be careful not to disturb the nests of the turtles while enjoying the beach. If you’re looking for a little beach time without disturbing the turtles the beach right before the bay is a great spot to take a dip and make a tower of rocks.''Here are places to stay in the area!''Paramali Beach, Limassol''Just 25 kilometers from Limassol at Paramali Village is the beautiful Paramali Beach. The winds at this beach are strong and water is deep, making it a great place to go kitesurfing at.''This beach is less known that many of the others on this list, but that doesn’t mean it’s not one of the best beaches in Cyprus. It’s desolation makes it ideal for a day of peace and quiet with the ocean. Since it’s not a destination beach it’s recommended to bring your own food and beverages to Paramali as there are no beach huts or nearby restaurants. If you’re feeling peckish and are in an explorer mood be sure to walk through Paramali village.''Mackenzie Beach, Larnaca''Palm trees, sunshine, clean water – what’s not to love?\xa0 Just 15 minutes away from the city of''Larnarca''is Mackenzie Beach. It’s very much a locals beach for the residents of Larnaca, so you may see more Cypriots there than vacationers which is always a nice feeling. The water is shallow, meaning children and families can feel safer. Being near the city this beach can get busy, but it’s also a great place to walk along the promenade and grab some ice cream while overlooking the beautiful ocean.''Makronissos Beach, Ayia Napa''Makronisso Beach is actually three small bays with perfect soft white sand. It’s the perfect spot for some adventure activites like paragliding, water skiing, and diving. All the while, the water is clear, calm, and shallow so it’s great for sunbathers and families who just want to relax. The beach is clean and well cared for. There is also a tasty snack bar on the beach with great beer choices for the adults. Sun beds and loungers can be hired out for the like many of other beaches in Cyprus. Most visitors note that it is less crowded than other beaches in Ayia Napa, which is just the way we like it! For a fun day I would recommend bringing''some snorkle gear''– you may spot a sea turtle!''Any visitor on their way to Cyprus they can expect to find a long history, friendly locals, delicious food, and some of the best beaches in all of the Mediterranean. So what are you waiting for?''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Cyprus''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cyprus:''Check out the best rates on Cyprus Hotels.com here!''To feel more at, home we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Cyprus:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.''Water:''We found the water in Cyprus fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a''book on you!''Read Next:''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''What is the Schengen Agreement? All You Need to Know About Staying in Europe''Things to See in Cyprus on a Budget''The Ultimate Europe Travel Guide''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''The 10 Best Beaches in Cyprus for Relaxation and Adventure''February 19, 2018''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''October 29, 2016''The 10 Best Beaches in Cyprus for Relaxation and Adventure''was last modified:''April 11th, 2018''by''Cameron''We finally made it to Switzerland! After traveling''all over Europe''we had avoided traveling extensively in Switzerland. The main reason being that Switzerland is one of the most expensive countries in the world to travel in. However, the iconic Alps were calling us – so we bit the bullet.''We love to snowboard so it’s only natural we head to Switzerland while venturing around Europe. Switzerland is well known for it’s access to the Alps and world-class ski resorts. Our first stop in the country was at the heart of Swiss tourism, Grindelwald. Grindelwald lies in the Jungfrau region and is only a short train ride up from Interlaken, the stomping ground and adventure capital for almost every tourist in the country.''Switzerland is a lot more than just stunning vistas, it’s also an adventure sports hub.\xa0There are plenty of adventures to be found in Grindelwald, Interlaken, and the greater Jungfrau region. Its primed for adventure sports and those looking to explore the spectacular mountain range.''Arriving in Grindelwald''We set up our base as''Grindelwald''as we came for snowboarding. The little mountain village provides perfect access to two ski areas and numerous hiking trails. High above Grindelwald lies to the Bernese Alps, and a famous mountain face. That mountain is Eiger’s notorious North Face – yup the clothing company you have probably heard of is named after a mountain in Switzerland.''The village has a long main road and plenty of accommodation options to handle a large number of tourists that make the journey up the valley from Interlaken. The village lacks the charm that the surrounding villages have such a Gimmelwald, Murren, or Wengen, but it does provide amazing access to the mountains. However with the plethora of accommodation it’s possible to find a good deal on a hotel room for the night.''Things to do in Grindelwald (Winter Edition)''Ski/Snowboard''The highlight of winter in the Jungfrau region and Grindelwald has to be the ski and snowboard area. 213 kilometers of pistes that are divided into three areas equals pure bliss. There is Grindelwald First, Männlichen, and Murren which is accessed only via a train. Most may head to Switzerland to take in the breathtaking landscapes, but we were after some fresh snow and great terrain. If you’re heading to Switzerland to ski or snowboard make sure to check out''our packing list.''Grindelwald First''Our first day on the mountain we took the gondola up to Grindelwald First.\xa0Grindelwald First can only be accessed from the village and it provides stunning views of Bernese Alps. The gondola is the only way up to the mountain unless you’re looking for a long hike, popular in the summertime. The North Face of Eiger was shrouded in clouds and we were afraid we would face the same fate, but as the sun rose the clouds dissipated and we were treated to the amazing views of a stunning mountain range.''Get Discounted Lift Tickets Now!''A highlight of our day was the run down from Oberjoch back to Grindelwald, it’s an intermediate run that stretches over 8km long. It’s well known for being one of the best intermediate runs around and any novice snowboarder or skier should give it a try. The ski area has about 50kms of pistes with a number of off-piste opportunities. One of which includes a ski route from the resorts highest lift of Oberjoch down to Schilt. (''Check out trail map'')''Grindelwald First is most popular with snowboarders as the area has two snowparks – a beginner run off of Oberjoch and the larger White Elements freestyle park, also a superpipe at Shrekford and a terrain park near the Bargelegg lift.''Kleine Scheidegg-Männlichen''The central ski area has around 100km of ski pistes and the vast majority of them are rated as intermediates. There are a plethora of long intermediate runs. It’s really great for families or novices not looking to tackle some of Switzerland’s massive ski resorts. It’s the largest section of the ski area and you get the unique opportunity to take a train back up to the mountaintop from three different rail stops along the mountain.''Mürren''We didn’t get to explore this village on our trip. It’s well known for being a quaint and beautiful village with amazing views of the\xa0Lauterbrunnen Valley. The resort has a number of challenging runs but is small in size. Most notably it is credited with being the birth of modern skiing and held the first slalom race ever in 1922.''Find out what a Velogemmel is''Our first evening in the region we tried something unique to only Grindelwald, the Velogemmel. You’re probably wondering what a Velogemmel is because we were too on our arrival. A Velogemmel is a wooden bike with two small sled edges instead of tires.\xa0It’s a crazy idea that was initially designed for the local postmen going door to door years ago.''An idea that tourists and locals are more than welcome to try themselves. We had a blast riding a wood bike down the sledge run at night. It’s also not too hard on the legs so if you’ve already been skiing on the mountain it’s a fun nighttime activity for friends and family. The “bikes” can be rented during the day or night to be used on the sledge trails from the train station.''Scream down the First Flyer''We’ve seen a lot of cool things included in our lifts tickets while skiing, but the''First Flyer''is a one and only. Riders are given two options to be strapped in and hurtle down an 800-meter long zip line.''You can either opt for the classic harness in which you sit upright, or hang like an eagle above the mountain below. The advantage of riding the flyer in the winter is almost no lines. We haven’t seen it during the summertime, but I imagine it draws a bit more of a crowd.''Savor cheesy fondue''There could not be a more fitting place to give fondue a try than in the Swiss Alps. Fondue in Switzerland is a rite of passage and one of the most traditional forms of dining.''It’s possible to find fondue in the summer season for tourists, but it’s actually a winter tradition and dish. If you’re not familiar with fondue it’s fresh local cheese melted into a large communal pot that you dip small pieces of bread. In America, we have our own version that uses different meats and vegetables, but in Switzerland, you use strictly bread (and a few drinks with great company).''Venture around Wengen''This car-free village is a popular stop year round. It sits above the neighboring Lauterbrunnen valley and offers jaw-dropping views out to Switzerland’s tallest waterfall. It’s a charming village that is buzzing with people in the winter looking to hit the slopes. In summer it serves as a relaxing oasis to soak in the beauty of the Alps. From Wengen, you can hike down to the valley or up to the mountaintops.''Catch the Ski World Cup''A highlight of the winter is the world famous''Lauberhorn''World Cup Race. Its origin goes back all the way to 1930 and it is the world’s fastest and longest downhill race. The world famous run includes a cliff jump in which skiers fly through the air up to 60m. It draws a massive crowd and is sure to be a spectacle. Just make sure to book in advance as tickets and accommodation are usually sold out.''Sledge!''We’re starting to get the hang of this one! If you aren’t big on skiing or snowboarding then the area of Jungfrau just may be the world capital of sledding. You can even take the world’s longest sled run here! Covering 15km the run drops nearly 1600m! Don’t worry about bringing the gear as you can easily rent a helmet, goggles, and sled if need be.''A number of shops in the villages offer rentals as well as ski shops at the top of\xa0Kleine Scheidegg. If you rent your sled at the top of the mountain ask the shop beforehand as many allow you to ride down and drop the sled off at the train station. We highly recommend giving sledges a try as they’re a blast for everyone.''Hint*''The metal sleds go much faster than the plastic ones.''Shop till you drop''There is no shortage of places to go shopping at in the region. It’s one of the main pass times for those who are not hitting the slopes. Of course, style plays a pretty important factor in your winter weather gear! If you’re looking for that perfect photo on top of a mountain you need to look your best.''Go hiking''For those who like to keep their feet firmly on the ground, there are a countless number of hiking trails around the Jungfrau region that are open year round. While wintertime trails are limited they still have a number of groomed trails that allow for wonderful winter hikes in skis, snowshoes, or even hiking boots.''Get yourself on a snowshoe trail''There are 18 snowshoe trails to explore from Grindelwald. Almost all of them are sure to provide stunning mountain views in a serene Swiss valley. You can check out this''site for information''on the snowshoe hikes in the area. We didn’t give snowshoeing a try in Grindelwald or Jungfrau as we were short on time, but have tried it in the past and love how close you get with nature.''Take in the view''It doesn’t matter what you’re doing or where you are in the region, but the views are going to be breathtaking. There is a good reason that Jungfrau is one of the most popular spots in Switzerland. It’s for the jaw-dropping mountain views, so make sure to bring a''good travel camera.''Cliff Walk''If you want to brave your fear of heights then take the Gondola up to the Cliff Walk. It’s a death-defying structure that allows visitors to walk out on a cliff with nothing below.''First Cliff Walk''lies at the top of the Grindelwald First Gondola and is open year round. If you’re looking for the best view in the region you may have found it – just don’t look down!''Head up to Jungfraujoch''It’s the top of Europe! Well, at least that’s how Jungfraujoch is advertised. It may not actually be the top of Europe or even the highest point in Switzerland, but it''is''the highest train you can take in Europe. It’s also the highest point one can easily reach as a tourist with views over an expansive 22km long glacier.''The train ride and top station have been attracting tourist since 1800s. In fact, it was first constructed due to the demand from the English aristocracy seeking to venture higher and higher into the mountains. An idea that was first thought of as hair-brained was dreamed up by Adolf Guyer-Zeller.''He lived to see his idea through and began ferrying passengers up to the top of the mountain range. The mountaintop now offers a full visitor experience. There is a museum, walking trail, chocolate experience, restaurant, ice cave, and one of the best views in Europe. The amazing structure at the top is called the Sphinx and looks straight out of a James Bond movie. Sure, it may be one of the most touristy things to do in Switzerland, but there is a good reason for that!''Plan Your Trip to Switzerland''Wondering what to bring to Europe?''Check out our ultimate''Europe packing list.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the tap water in Switzerland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''Remember that Switzerland uses the\xa0Type J outlets, unlike the rest of Europe. Many adapters around Europe are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged. (This one works well in Switzerland).''Read Next:''Visiting Malbun • How to Enjoy Winter in Liechtenstein''Skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria • 13 Things You Need to Know''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Things to do in Grindelwald, Switzerland in the Winter''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Cameron''What’s the best camera for safari?''It’s likely one of the first questions\xa0every''traveler coming to Africa''asks after booking a safari. Having a decent camera for safari is on the top of our recommendation list. While it’s not a necessity and we’re big believers in making sure to put the camera down and actually save some photos in your memory there is a\xa0thrill in grabbing that perfect safari photo.''It’s also a sure way to share your wildlife experiences with friends and family back at home.\xa0There are a number of aspects to consider when looking for the best safari camera possible. This post is not meant for professional photographers. If you’re likely at that level you have your own idea of what the perfect safari camera is for you.''Basics Of A Safari\xa0Camera''There are several criteria that make a great camera for safari. A lot also depends on the cameras intended use. Not everyone is in it for the photos and not everyone wants the same kind of photos. There is no clear-cut answer here for what the best camera is for safari, but there is the best camera for a specific person.''Cost''This one is an obvious criterion. Not everyone has the budget to spend thousands of dollars on a camera, nor should they. There is no point in spending lots of money on something that will just collect dust or confound the user. There is also that best bang for buck aspect. While a high-end professional camera goes for lots of money the escalation of price makes pointless for anyone, but a professional. Even some professionals see the additional cost as a waste!''FPS (Frames per second)''This is a very important aspect for many. It refers to how quickly a camera can shoot a burst of photos. With fast moving subjects on safari, you’ll want to capture that perfect moment. This may require a burst and a fast fps. This refers to how many photos the camera can take in the period of one second. This is not the most important aspect it something to consider when comparing similar cameras.''Sensor''The sensor refers to the light-sensitive chip in every digital camera that interprets how light is perceived to create a digital image. Sensors come in a variety of shapes and sizes and have the most direct impact on image quality. When it comes to wildlife photography every inch counts. This is why I’ve chosen to pick only cropped sensors that will give an added boost to any lens.''All lenses are measured mathematically for a full frame sensor – the same size as a 35mm film camera. So, when cameras employ a smaller sensor this results in a cropped effect on lens focal length. This means 100mm on a''Canon 80D''is really the focal length of a 160mm lens.''Lens''The lens is the most important aspect when shooting wildlife photography. You can have the best camera money can buy, but if you have a wide-angle lens you aren’t going to get those stellar close-up wildlife shots. Many\xa0cameras opt for interchangeable lenses which allow for a wide range of focal lengths to get wide landscape shots and tight close-ups.\xa0When shooting wildlife the far-reaching lens, or zoom is important.''Lens distance is referred to as focal length.''Focal length is measured in millimeters with a short focal length (<5omm) creating a wide-angle image and a long focal length (135mm<) creating a tight/zoomed image.''Short Focal Length''Long Focal Length''The two images above\xa0were taken from the same distance.''Build''The African bush can be brutal on just about everything. Safari lodges\xa0and vehicles are constantly fighting the elements of dust, dirt, humidity, heat, wind, rain, and even wild animals. Although, it’s unlikely your camera will have to survive an elephant the environment\xa0should be a consideration.''Professional cameras are built to be weatherproof meaning they can handle the dust, dirt, and rain directly on the camera. I’ve personally carried my Canon camera through rainstorms without fear of it being ruined. There are also a number of cameras that are purpose-built to hold up to the elements.''Comfort''How does the camera feel in your hands? Are you going to drop it? Is it heavy? Or does it feel like an extension of your arms and eyes? A camera with a solid grip is a life saver\xa0when shooting photos while walking in the bush, from a moving boat, or the game viewer.''Best Camera For Safari''Canon 80D''This is my first safari camera. I spent some time deliberating what camera would be best for me and I couldn’t be happier. The camera has a number of strong suits that make it exceptional for a safari camera. It’s weatherproof meaning those dusty roads and African thunderstorms won’t take your camera by surprise.''It has a cropped sensor that still shoots 24mp stills with a high dynamic range. The cropped sensor gives a greater focal length, combined with a high processing power of the latest Canon cameras means it shoots rock star photos. Also, as an EF mount Canon, it comes with a massive selection of lenses to put on the camera. With a vast\xa0selection of quality and price points.''The camera has WiFi connection so users can shoot from their phone. A sweet flip screen great for low\xa0angle ground shots and shooting video. The touchscreen LCD makes live video focusing and tracking a breeze. It’s far superior in my opinion to the''7D mkii''that is now three years old and needs an update! So, it’s arguably one of the best cameras for safari on the market.''Check the Prices Here!''Sony A7 III''When it comes to value the Sony A7 III is the best safari camera you can buy at the moment. While, it sits comfortably in the prosumer price point, around $2,000 for the camera body. This is our latest camera and we’re very excited to get our hands on it. However, it is currently on back order so it will be a month or two until we provide an update on the quality of the camera.''Those lucky enough to have Sony’s latest and greatest have given it glowing reviews, many referring to it as the best camera ever for the price point.\xa0\xa0Its sensor technology, focusing speeds, and dynamic range is incredible — plus it’s cheaper than any of its competitors.''Check the Prices Here!''Panasonic Lumix DMC FZ1000''This is a bridge camera. It means that it fills the gap between the old school point and shoot cameras and the DSLR. A bridge camera has a fixed lens with an optical and digital zoom. It offers the simplicity of a point and shoots with superior image quality. For the price point, it’s a hard camera to compete with!''The advantages of this camera include a larger sensor than most bridge cameras and it shoots 4k video. While the lens is not interchangeable it has a wide range from 25mm to 400mm. The sensor is larger than most of its competitors at almost 1″ which means\xa0it is one of the best in a bridge camera. The camera body is a nice build and will feel natural in your hands.''If you’re looking for a straightforward camera that will be easy to use as a novice photographer then this camera is the best pick.''Check the Prices Here!''Fuji\xa0X-T20''This is Tasha’s camera and she has loved it after upgrading from her clunky DSLR. The camera is super stylish and looks great. If you’re looking for a camera that matches your chic''safari clothes''this is the one. It has a retro feel with dials, a popup flash, and metal body.''Fuji’s sensor has some of the best jpegs out of the camera I have seen. It has an excellent color representation and photos require little editing, which is perfect for those who just want a great overall camera. In fact, I might say it’s the perfect travel blogging camera where the image is important, but so is time.''The camera also has the latest bells and whistles with wifi, tracking autofocus, and even cool effects like film simulation modes that emulate old cameras. This combined with a lightweight build that is slim, ergonomic, and fun makes it a real stand out in the world of mirrorless cameras.''The only\xa0drawback\xa0on the\xa0camera for safari is the fact is the limited lens offering. They have some wonderful lenses with great build quality. However, the only long lens on the market currently is the''100-400mm''that has a high price tag.''Check the Prices Here!''Sony Alpha a5100''For coming in under $500 this is one of the best cameras. It has a quick auto focus with both stills and video. It has a great face detection program that is effective at finding and tracking. Sony is quickly emerging as a force to be reckoned with in the photography world, with it’s''class leading A7II''.''It should be no surprise that they have also brought some exciting cameras to the consumer market as well.\xa0The 5100 offers interchangeable lenses which are helpful when shooting in various safari environments. It’s super compact size also makes it a rockstar to hold in your hand.''Check the Prices Here!''Canon 1dx MkII''The''Canon 1D X MkII''is the flagship DSLR of Canon and it’s a mighty camera. To put it simply the camera is the toughest, fastest, most versatile, and greatest image quality camera ever made. The full frame camera is a monster capable of shooting RAW images at 14 fps a second. If you want to know what the guys from National Geographic are carrying these days it’s the Canon 1D X MkII. In fact, I just ordered one for my latest camera and could not be more pleased.''The rear LCD is super bright so you can view your photos in the hot Africa sun. Plus the screen features a wonderful touch screen for adjusting settings, adjusting the focus on video, and swiping through your pictures.''Speaking of the video the 1D X Mkii can shoot 4k at 60fps and 1080 at 120fps. That way you can catch high definition images in super smooth slow motion.''There is one negative to Canon’s flagship camera, and that is the high price tag at over $5,000 for the camera body. So, when you add in the cost of lenses you’re looking at a hefty investment. However, for the price you get one heck of a safari camera prepared to handle the bush and produce top quality images.''Check the Prices Here!''Best Safari Camera Lenses''Tamron 150 – 600 G2''The perfect zoom lens will make all of the difference when it comes to wildlife and safari. A good focal length for a safari lens should come in at 200mm and up. That’s why Tamron’s 150-600 is a slam dunk. For the price, it’s really tough to beat this safari lens. It has an amazing feel in your hands and with solid build quality – albeit a bit heavy. The lens is sharp throughout and only sees a slight softening at 600mm, but it’s 600mm so who cares. You can snap a\xa0photo of a lion’s eye at that focal length…''A similar focal length lens from Canon or Nikon will cost several times more, some even $15,000. The value of this lens is unreal and they produce it for both Canon and Nikon shooters.''Check the Prices Here!''Canon 70 – 200mm''This is the second most popular lens Canon has ever made. The Canon EF 70-200mm\xa0is an amazing telephoto zoom that is loved for its image. There is a wide range of models, but\xa0I would recommend looking for more recent additions that have image stabilization. Just about every working professional has carried this lens at some point or still packs it in their bag.''Check the Prices Here!''My Safari Camera Setup''This the camera setup that I now carry on safari. The photo above was in''Mana Pools National Park'', one of our favorites!''Canon 80D – For wildlife shots. I love the durability, video, and cropped APS-C sensor.''Sony A7 – Latest camera addition. Amazing for image quality and landscapes.''Canon 24 -105 E Lens – This is possibly the greatest lens ever made, and beloved by photographers for its versatility.''Tamron 150 – 600 G2 – Amazing Long Lens''Canon 16 – 35mm – Fantastic Wide Angle''Sony 24 -70 G Master Lens''Mavic Air – We’ve had the Mavic Pro and Phantom, but the size of the Mavic Air is amazing!''Tripod – Every serious photographer carries a tripod for a stable shot and long exposures.''GoPro – Not really any use on a traditional safari, but always fun on the''beaches of Zanzibar''!''Or, you can just get a''drone''like we did!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''The Seven Best Hotels In Zanzibar to Stay At''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''Our journey across Africa: A true African safari''December 18, 2017''10 Safari Bags to Consider for Your Trip to Africa''August 31, 2017''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Cameron''We’ve been on a mission to explore some of the smallest countries in the world. It’s what recently''brought us to Luxembourg''and took us through''Swaziland last year''. On our grand tour of the Alps, we visited Austria and Switzerland so it only made a chance to stop by the country sandwiched right in between the two.''So what else would we do in Liechtenstein than to enjoy some winter activities? Snowboarding, skiing, snowshoeing, and sledding? Yup, you can do all that in one of the smallest countries in the world. The small ski village of Malbun holds all the answers to your ultimate winter vacation in Liechtenstein.''These are some of our favorite things to do in Malbun.''Ski or Snowboard in Malbun''We were due for a few days of snowboarding in Malbun, but after a freak winter storm hit us in nearby Austria we had to cut a day short in Liechtenstein. When we finally made it out of Austria and to Malbun we were up and at it early. That way we were some of the first people on the pistes.''It was a Wednesday afternoon in late January, and by noon we came to realize that maybe this resort town doesn’t get so crowded. The runs were nearly empty, we never once stood for more than five seconds in line, and the runs were peaceful. We had free reign of the resort.''Although Malbun is a small resort, it is still very much in the Alps, and the mountains are stunning. Beginners are more than welcome at Malbun as there are many blue runs, hills aren’t steep, and there are only three chairlifts. So it’s almost impossible to get separated from your ski group as you will all eventually catch up to each other at the bottom.''On the other hand, intermediate riders can still have a good time here. There are a number of areas to ride off-piste, a few black runs, and even a small snow park. All in all, fun can be had here for any level and skill at any age!''For your info:''Malbun ski resort has\xa0five lifts in total (three chairlifts), and classifies their runs as\xa060% intermediate; 30% beginner; 10% expert. Lift tickets are CHF 48 per day.''Trek with llamas''I know nothing about llamas, besides the fact that they are just a bit odd looking. When we found out that we could actually go trekking with them through the forests near Malbun we knew we just had to try.''Lama- & Alpaca of Triesenberg''offers adults and children alike the opportunity to get close to nature with the comfort of a\xa0furry\xa0alpaca or llama nearby. Liechtenstein native, Marc, runs tours right from his farm, taking visitors up high into the forests of Liechtenstein providing incredible views over the whole valley.''All the while you are guiding (or being guided by) a llama. Both Cameron and I made friends with our llamas, Tully and Balloo during our short gentle hike. There are also options to do multi-day hikes with the llamas, and fondue treks!''Fondue Yourself!''Speaking of fondue, did you know that you can get your cheese kicks on in Malbun?''Fondue is a Swiss dish''of melted cheese served in a communal pot. Back home in the States, we’ve commercialized it a bit and now you can throw anything from vegetables to shrimp into a pot of gooey cheese. But here in the Alps, the traditional way to eat it is with good old bread!''Since Liechtenstein is close to Switzerland shares a similar culture you can bet your butt they have fondue in the little village of Malbun. A good place to go to have fondue is''Alp Sucka''. After your fondue experience, you can sled right back down into Malbun! Talk about working off your dinner calories! Have we mentioned we love to sled?''Snowshoe''If you want a slower paced activity than skiing or snowboarding down a mountain I would recommend snowshoeing in Malbun.\xa0 Immerse yourself in nature with a pair of snowshoes and explore the snowy forests! We’ve done this a few times when we want to give our bodies a rest from snowboarding and always have an enjoyable time. Snowshoeing through the forests provides a serene mountain atmosphere that is impossible to beat.''Toboggan''There is two toboggan runs near Malbun. One I previously mentioned, leading down from Berggasthause Sucka hut in Steg and the other run is right in Malbun. Both runs are about 1km in length and are maintained very well so that all can enjoy.\xa0 We try to go tobogganing at every winter resort we visit as we’ve found that tobogganing can be as''adventurous''or as tame as you want.''Ice Skate''The small center of Malbun holds a new ice skating rink. It’s perfect for families, a game of ice hockey, or “Eisstockschiessen” (a game similar to curling).''The rink is open from 10 am to 9 pm so if you’re looking for something to do at night in the winter head here. We also found an iglu nearby for a round of drinks afterward!''Things to know about Liechtenstein''Liechtenstein is a double-landlocked country. That means that both the countries that border it, Switzerland and Austria, are also landlocked.''Liechtensteiners speak German, and most villages have their own dialect.''The Swiss Franc is the national currency of Liechtenstein, although we were able to pay with Euro notes in many places.''Liechtenstein is the sixth smallest country in the world!''Liechtenstein is a member of the''Schengen agreement.''There are no airports in Liechtenstein. The easiest way arrive is via plane through Zurich International Airport.''Liechtenstein has an extensive bus and rail network and any Swiss Travel Pass works here as well. Malbun is easily connected to the rest of Liechtenstein via bus.''Expect the costs of things in Liechtenstein to be on par with those in Switzerland (i.e. not cheap).''Liechtenstein is one of the richest countries in the world (GDP per capita).''If you plan on skiing in Malbun, make sure that you pack well. This\xa0is a great''ski and snowboard packing list.''If you’re taking part in activities on the mountain, it’s best to\xa0travel with''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. World Nomads offers great prices and coverage''Adaptor:''Remember that Luxembourg uses''Type J''electrical plugs (same as nearby Switzerland)''. Our universal plug fit just fine!''Read Next:''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''15 Amazing Things to do in Innsbruck, Austria (+ Winter Options!)''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Visiting Malbun • How to Enjoy Winter in Liechtenstein''was last modified:''February 16th, 2018''by''Natasha''There aren’t many cities like Innsbruck, if there are any that can even compare. It’s coined itself the title “Capital of Alps” and easy to understand why once you set foot in the city. Flanked by the impressive Nordkette mountain range that towers over the city nature never feels far away.''Five years ago our first visit to Austria was a total accident. As two young backpackers, we had rented a car in Munich before heading South to Bavarian Alps. It wasn’t until we were sitting in a restaurant that night that Cameron asked,''“Are we in Austria?”''.''Sure enough, we were surrounded by Austrian flags and that little dot on our GPS confirmed we had arrived. The only problem, on a tight budget we had to sleep in the rental car. This time around we arrived in Innsbruck with plans. With our snowboards in tow, we made plans to properly explore Innsbruck by sight and slopes.''It’s the only city where you can ski, explore a grand palace, window shop, and savor a strudel all in one day. There are plenty of things to do in Innsbruck with the Austrian Alps and a city rich in history. In many ways, it’s everything we love about Austria. A modern and historical city that within minutes places you in the heart of the Alps with cowbells ringing and fresh Alpine air.''Things to do in Innsbruck''Visit the Hofkirche''If you enjoy grand European churches then a visit to''The Hofkirche''can’t be missed.\xa0 The Gothic church was built in the mid-1500’s and is located in the center of Innsbruck. As impressive as it is from the outside you have to go inside to marvel.''The interior of the Hofkirche is grand, to say the least. The main attraction is the\xa0Cenotaph of Emperor''Maximilian I'', which is surrounded by 28 statues depicting his various ancestors and heroes who include Leopold III and King Arthur.''Act Brave at the Bergisel Ski Jump (Bergiselschanze)''The''Bergisel Ski Jump''is a world-class ski jump hill that can be seen from just about anywhere in Innsbruck. It’s an unmistakable icon of the city and was redesigned by the famed Iraqi-British architect Zaha Hadid.\xa0 The venue has been used in two Olympic\xa0games (1964 and 1976)!\xa0\xa0Each year, the Bergisel Stadium plays host to the annual Four Hills Tournament in January and also to a Summer Grand Prix Jumping Event. Although, visitors can get the views from the beautiful ski jump every day.''The main tower stands 47 meters tall and provides amazing views over all of Innsbruck and the Alps. After taking the gondola to the top of the ski jump, you can look down and feel what it’s like to be a daring ski jumper. Or you can enjoy the peaks of\xa0Patscherkofel, Nordkette, Hohe Munde and Serles from the restaurant and cafe on a clear day!''Feel Grand at the Imperial Palace (Hofburg)''Unfortunately, the Imperial Palace was closed for renovations when we were in the city, but it is consistently ranked as one of the best things to do in Innsbruck!''Completed in the year 1500 under\xa0Emperor Maximilian I, it is now the third most important historic building in Austria. You can wander the Hofburg freely, or take a guided tour!''Check out Ambras Castle''Less than two hours after arriving in Innsbruck we knew we had to make our way to the lovely renaissance castle perched above Innsbruck. Built in the 16th century and connected with\xa0Archduke Ferdinand II, Ambras Castle is one of the most popular tourist attractions in the region of Tyrol. Depending on how into Renaissance history you are one could easily spend a few hours rambling about the castle.''Although we aren’t huge on museums, Ambras Castle is truly unique.\xa0The highlight is the Spanish Hall, a lavish and divine hall fixed with 27 full-figure portraits of Tirolean Habsburg rulers. They still hold formal events in the Spanish Hall to this day such as concerts. Another highlight is the\xa0Chamber of Art and Curiosities, there you will find rare objects and artifacts from the 16th century giving a glimpse of Renaissance life.''Walk Around Altstadt von Innsbruck (Old town)''If you have just arrived in Innsbruck and have absolutely no idea where to start then just head to the center of town. Innsbruck’s Old Town boasts some incredible buildings, some even date back to the 1500’s. The Old Town is where you can take iconic photos of a colorful town beneath the Alps, grab a bite to eat, enjoy a cappuccino, gorge on apple strudels, shop, and just enjoy the atmosphere.''The Old Town is buzzing almost any time of the year throughout the day. So, it’s a great place to find tourists, locals, and students from the University. Many of the other attractions mentioned in this post are located in the old town as well and you could easily allocate a day to the old town.''Olympia SkiWorld Innsbruck''The main reason we were dying to go to Innsbruck (besides the beauty, of course) was Olympia SkiWorld. Being the “Capital of the Alps there are a plethora of ski slopes.''Olympia SkiWorld''is a ski area that includes nine resorts within the Innsbruck area. They are easily accessible from Innsbruck and there is a free ski bus to shuttle you around.''The ski resorts that are included are\xa0Kühtai, Nordkette-Seegrube,\xa0Patscherkofel,\xa0Axamer Lizum,\xa0Muttereralm,\xa0Rangger Köpfl,\xa0Glungezer,\xa0Schlick 2000, and the\xa0Stubai Glacier. We planned for three days in Innsbruck and only had time for a select few resorts.''On our first day, we made our way up to Nordkette as the funicular is located right in the city center. Unfortunately, when we reached the top of Nordketter there were whiteout conditions, and our visibility was no beuno.\xa0 But we did manage to enjoy playing in the snow, admiring the alpine trees, have a gluhwein, and dance inside the Cloud Nine Iglu Bar!''There is something around Innsbruck for all levels and ability. Just because it’s the Alps doesn’t mean you have to be an expert skier.\xa0Prices are pretty reasonable to get the Olympia SkiWorld pass, which gives you lift tickets to all nine resorts,''check here for more info.''Head down or up Nordkette''The mountains are always close to Innsbruck, and you can travel from the middle of Innsbruck to 1900 meters above sea level with the Nordkettenbahnen lifts in less than thirty minutes.''Nordkette is the northern mountain range that stands above Innsbruck. The view from the top is simply astonishing and presents a number of hiking and photo opportunities. In the winter the mountain is best known for freeriding down some of the steepest routes in Europe. It’s truly a paradise for off-piste riding! Check out''our ski and snowboarding packing list''if you plan to ride!''Become a Bobsledder!''At the Olympic ice track in Igls adults and older children can experience the feeling of Olympic a bobsledder barrelling down the track. Don’t worry, you don’t have to have to train like an Olympian to get the feel for this activity.''Two guests can be cradled between an experienced driver and brakeman while racing around 14 corners in under 60 seconds. You must book this activity in advance.''Admire the Golden Roof''Or “''Goldenes Dachl''” in German is an iconic landmark in Innsbruck’s Alt Stadt. The gold roof dates back to 1500 when it was built for\xa0Emperor Maximilian I\xa0to mark his wedding to\xa0Bianca Maria Sforza.''It is decorated with 2,657\xa0fire-gilded\xa0copper tiles and is truly a sight to be seen. Although you can’t observe festivals and tournaments like the Emperor you can certainly admire the handicraft of this gorgeous roof from down below.''Cross Country Ski''There are many cross-country ski trails around Innsbruck to enjoy the surrounding nature. All you need is a pair of skis and you’re off into the beautiful Austrian countryside.''Some notable places to take to the trails are at the Bilgeriloipe trail in Kuhtai, the Mieming Plateau, and near the village of Praxmar.''Toboggan Ride''A good alternative to skiing or snowboarding, especially for families with young children is tobogganing! You don’t need much to get started, just some warm clothes and a sled. It doesn’t cost much to spend a day or night on a sled and it’s a great way to enjoy the fresh winter air!''We didn’t realize how exhilarating sledge riding was until we tried it in''Trentino''. Now we are completely hooked and try to do it at least once a winter. Innsbruck offers a number of toboggan runs, some at night.''Maria Waldrast''located at the base of Serles mountain and is one of the most popular places to go for a ride.''Go for a Hike''Even though Innsbruck is a city there are plenty of places around to hike and enjoy the fresh air. From easy to multi-day mountain treks there are so many beautiful places to be uncovered around Innsbruck and Tyrol. Some notable trekking areas are:''The Karwendel – one of the largest natural landscapes in central Europe.''The Zirbenweg Trail – one of the largest stone pine forests in Europe and extremely popular for hiking''Lüsens – A good base for climbing the surrounding peaks''Visit the Alpenzoo''After a year on''safari in Africa'', it’s safe to say we aren’t zoo people anymore. However, Innsbruck’s Alpenzoo is one of the highest in Europe and acts as a home to many Alpine animals. That means you can come here with the family to see bears, wolfs, moose, bison, and many birds of prey.''It’s also the only zoo in the world where you can find the''wallcreeper bird.''Although the animals at the zoo may not be in the wild, the Alpenzoo is famous for reintroducing species back into their natural habitats, including the Alpine\xa0ibexes in Austria!''Admire Swarovski Crystal World''The Swarovski Crystal World just outside of Innsbruck is extraordinary. A day trip here is a fun way to explore all things crystal. The Crystal World has the world’s largest Swarovski store and it’s sure to dazzle.''Crystal isn’t the only attraction here, the Swarovski crystal world features an outdoor garden. “The Giant” is the\xa0thematic centerpiece of the whole area. It is said that the Giant set out to experience a world of wonders and settled in Wattens to watch over the gardens and his wonders. It’s a stunning piece of artwork, and impressive.''Have a drink at the Adlers Hotel''If you’re looking for great views in the city of Innsbruck then the best place to head to is Adler’s Hotel. Adler’s Hotel is the tallest building in the city and provides astonishing views of the capital of the Alps (and of course, the Alps themselves). Floor 12 has a beautiful and modern bar that provides innovative cocktails or coffee for those looking to just relax while doing some work.''Right next door is their restaurant which serves up delicious food to guests of the hotel and outsiders! We had a few cups of coffee here as well as a few meals and thoroughly enjoyed the hotel, bar, restaurant, and even outdoor terrace (although it was a bit chilly).''We stayed at the\xa0Adler’s Hotel while in Innsbruck. Every room here has open views of the city and it’s literally right next to the train station. Could it get any better?''Check Hotel Prices Here!''General info for visiting Innsbruck''We were surprised to find that Innsbruck has its own airport, and it’s literally right in the middle of the city. There are a number of direct flights from around Europe including Berlin, Amsterdam, London, and Stockholm.''Innsbruck is the fifth largest city in Austria.''Innsbruck is walkable; however, they do have an efficient bus network to get you around as well!''To make the most out of your trip to Innsbruck check out the''Innsbruck Card''.''Check out our''European packing list''for your trip to Europe!''Austria is within the''Schengen Zone''. Make sure to check your embassy’s website for visa restrictions.''Austria uses the Euro note (€).\xa0 ATM’s are easy to find around the city – check out our''travel banking post''for more.''Learn Hello’ and ‘Thank You’ in German –''“Hallo”\xa0and “Danke”''Remember that Austria uses the''Europlug''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance, for short trips we recommend World Nomads''. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry.''Check out the video!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''Skiing in Bansko • 13 Things You Need to Know''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''The Ultimate Europe Travel Guide''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''15 Amazing Things to do in Innsbruck, Austria (+ Winter Options!)''was last modified:''April 15th, 2018''by''Natasha''Between the two of us, we’ve spent more than three months out of our lives gallivanting around''Italy''. However, there was one area yet to be explored – Trentino.''After sipping cappuccinos in Florence'', eating the best pizza ever in Naples, and basking in the sun in Sicily we knew had to get to one of Italy’s best ski destinations.''The Trentino region of''Italy''lies Northeast of Milan and is only a short drive from the Bergamo airport. It’s home to the Dolomites, beautiful mountain villages, and 800km of pistes. When planning our snowboarding trip in Italy we landed on traveling to the most famous ski resort in the Dolomites, Madonna Di Campiglio, and the neighboring area of Val Di Sole.''In case it’s news to you we’re in love with Italy. We have often thought of setting roots down in the country and learning Italian. So, it shouldn’t have been much of a surprise that we would fall in love with the Italian mountains as well. What surprises us the most is just how much each region varies all within one small country. For anyone wanting to taste a little adventure in Northern Italy here is what you can expect.''Arriving in Val Di Sole''The driving force of winter tourism in the Trentino region lies in Val Di Sole. A large valley with a number of linked ski resorts that can offer\xa0380km of pistes, 150 lifts, and a nice selection of free ride opportunities. The entire region is accessible with the''Superskirama ski pass''.''Tonale Pass''Tonale Pass is a small town along the road crossing through Val Di Sole. It sits at a high elevation which often provides it with great snow conditions. When we arrived we found mounds of snow and a two-meter base, a much different feel than our previous week in warmer''Bansko, Bulgaria''. There are a number of charming hotels and the mountains rise 2200 meters above on either side of the pass). It’s here where we began our epic snowboarding trip. After spending the night in the family-run Sporting Hotel with friendly owners, good food, and a wellness center we were ready for the mountains.''Accommodation and lift tickets in Passo Tonale are both known for being very affordable. Half board accommodation including a spa starts at only €70 an adult, while\xa0a lift ticket costs just €54 a day in the high season. Compared to North America, that is a steal.\xa0The region is only a little over two hours from Bergamo airport, which is serviced by low-cost European carriers. This means you get great value and could easily have a week-long ski holiday for around €1,000 a person!''The ski pistes extend to the North and South of town. All is connected via a gondola and ski road to the ski area of Ponte di Legno. To the North, the runs are mostly beginners and intermediate with gentle wide slopes drawing many families who come to learn how to ski. To the South is the highlight for more avid snowboarder and skiers, the stunning Presena Glacier.''Presena Glacier''We didn’t know what to expect when as we were riding up the gondola to the''Presena Glacier''. It’s widely celebrated for its free riding opportunities and ski routes. The glacier is easily the highlight of Tonale Pass as it’s a year-round ski destination. With a new gondola, visitors can reach the top of the glacier in a short fifteen minutes, the amount of elevation climbed in such a short amount of time is truly impressive. Oh and there’s also the world’s most scenic cafe at the top,''so grab yourself a cappuccino''and enjoy the view – you’re in Italy after all!''The gondola does not present a wide range of pistes, but it does offer one of the most famous pistes in the Trentino region with Paradiso and a plethora of off-piste opportunities. To take advantage of the free ride opportunities in Tonale Pass it’s best to hire a local guide who knows the area best and can help you with your form, you’ll also want to make sure you have an avalanche beacon for safety. The piste route, Paradiso, is a fun black run that covers around three kilometers and 750 meters of descent. It connects with a ski run that leads directly into the neighboring town of Ponte De Ligno.''Besides the glacier itself, the highlight for us was the opportunity to stay in the''Capanna Presena''. A mountain hut that sits on the glacier and provides guest solitude and a chance to connect deeper with the mountains. Anyone who has the opportunity to stay will thoroughly enjoy the amazing spa with a whirlpool, sauna, and infrared saunas that provide breathtaking views over the mountains at sunset.''You also have the chance to wake up, watch sunrise, and enjoy the first runs of the day with freshly groomed slopes. Even if you aren’t staying overnight, Capanna Presena has a fully serviced kitchen and welcomes outsiders into their wellness center for a fee.''Folgarida''Our third day in Trentino we made our way to Folgarida, it is linked with the famous ski town of Madonna Di Campiglio, Marilleva, and\xa0Pinzolo. Together they make up one of the largest ski regions in Italy and offer over 150km of piste. Folgarida is not a particularly hard mountain, but they do have a newly opened black run that hits an incline of 70%!.''The highlight of Folgarida for us is how family and beginner friendly the resort area is for visitors.\xa0 The mountaintop features a family fun park with a number of closed bunny hills, tube parks, and rides for kids learning to ski. A number of ski huts and restaurants sit along the mountain tip and have amazing views over the''Dolomites''and Madonna Di Campiglio. We took advantage and had the best view you can with pizza in Italy.''Madonna Di Campiglio''This is the jewel of the ski scene in the Trentino region. It’s a well known resort that is famous for hosting many Italians looking for solid skiing, dining, and relaxation in a very posh environment. In fact, it still holds on to its claim to fame as the summer vacation spot of Austrian Royalty and Princess Sissi. The town is a beautiful little gem set at the base of the Dolomites and has all the charm of a mountain town.''The town is nearly car-free and it’s easy to take an evening stroll after a day on the slopes. We spent our evenings window shopping while checking out the 19th-century architecture with a cappuccino in hand. Charming wooden homes line the streets at the foot of the Dolomites. It is easy to see why the resort town is well cherished in Northern Italy.''When it comes to the pistes on the mountain they are well maintained and groomed daily. With tremendous weather and recent snowfall we experienced the mountains at their peak. Our days were filled with sunshine and fresh lines that had perfect packed powder conditions.''Fun fact, a freshly groomed slope is referred to as “spaghetti” in Italy – fitting! This is something visitors can learn about with the new activity Trentino Ski Sunrise. On Tuesdays throughout the ski season a small number of guests are given the opportunity to catch the gondola or chairlift up the mountain before official opening time. It’s available to anyone that can ski or snowboard, as the ride sticks to the blue rated beginner slopes. You head up the mountain just as the day breaks to enjoy an Italian breakfast with music and then head down for the first run of the day.''We found the food on the mountain and off to be wonderful with influences from Austria and Italy very evident. You have beautiful dishes like alpine cheese stuffed ravioli or seared mountain trout. Oh and with it being Italian there is no shortage of great wine to be had even on the slopes. We enjoyed spritz and sparkling wine, trentodoc, as midday aperitifs, as did everyone else, before hitting the slopes again!''Situated on Passo Groste and accessed via Gondola, the Italian cool continues with the snow park. The park attracts a crowd of snowboarders and skiers looking to hit big jumps and rails in the''Ursus Snowpark''. The ability for the park riders to buy tickets at a discounted rate for access only to the park does draw in a crowd. Jumps are well maintained and designed using state of the art technology that ensures rider safety and most of importantly the perfect air.''Snow conditions should never bee too much of a fear as even in the shoulder seasons the resort has impressive snowmaking capabilities that are sure to deliver. So riders who stick to the pistes are sure to never grow bored. However, the free ride and off pistes opportunities are not as great around Madonna Di Campiglio as the majority of its ski area is in a UNESCO world heritage protected national park that inhibits free riding, plus the slopes are rather gradual around Passo Groste.''Never the less, Madonna Di Campiglio has something for everyone! There are challenging runs that are steeper on Mont Spinale and the linked Pinzolo resort. We had a few nice runs down Spinale, before breaking for lunch at their latest mountain restaurant. It’s really a tremendous ski area that has so much to offer. We snowboarded three days straight and never found ourselves repeating the same runs over and over.''Activities in Madonna Di Campiglio''Activities abound for those who do not want to strap into a snowboard or a pair of skis. We had a few exciting activities on our agenda. First up for us was tobogganing, or sledging! After spending our days on snowboards we didn’t expect to find the sledging to be such a thrill, but we were dead wrong. You’ll fly down the mountain on a maintained, but fast, track laughing the whole way while trying to avoid flying into a big pile of fresh snow. The perfect activity for friends and family.''On our last day we left the busy weekend slopes and spent the evening riding through the forests on fat bikes. The bikes have wide tires that are able to grip in the snow and electric motors to help make it up hill. The bike ride through the forest is relaxing and provides wonderful views over the Dolomites and Madonna Di Campiglio without many people around. There are other activities to enjoy such cross-country skiing, snowshoeing, or winter hiking trails as well.''However, the whole star of the show here has to the natural beauty of the Dolomites. There are few mountain ranges in the world that can compare. I remember long ago seeing a photo of the mountain range and knowing that I would one day have to see it myself. So, it shouldn’t be much of a surprise that we were enamored by Madonna Di Campiglio. You will have a hard time finding places that you can ski or snowboard that are more scenic.''Accommodation''There are a plethora of great places to stay in Madonna Di Campiglio and Val Di Sole all with plenty of charm. Overall, we find them to be a great value compared to prices in Switzerland or France, while they still deliver a high level of service. Something for those to consider when looking to save money on a ski vacation in the Alps.''We stayed at the four-star''Hotel Miramonti''. The hotel has a charming lobby, sauna, bar, and restaurant. To make things better we found a modern spacious room with all the creature comforts we could want.\xa0 While staying at the hotel on a half board basis we had a nice selection of food from the chefs at the hotel.''Final Thoughts''Our first visit to the Val Di Sole region of Trentino and Madonna Di Campiglio was a fantastic introduction to ski in Italy. What surprises us the most is the lack of name recognition Italy has back home in the states when referencing ski/snowboard. We hope to one day return to Trentino and explore more of what the region has to offer.\xa0It has a great strength in offering an amazing mountain experience for much less than it’s Swiss and French counterparts. However, what drove it home for us is the sheer natural beauty of the Trentino region and Val Di Sole.''Read Next:''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''Skiing in Bansko • 13 Things You Need to Know''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''Is Venice Worth Visiting? An Unexpected Experience in Italy''15 Things to Know Before Going To Italy''The Best Hotels in Italy: Lake Como, Venice, Florence, Rome, & More''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''February 2, 2018''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''was last modified:''February 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''Packing for a winter trip can be a nightmare. Packing for a ski or snowboarding trip in the winter can bring a poor packer to tears. This is especially true for someone that is not used to cold winter conditions and harsh temperatures.''A lot of planning must go into a ski trip packing list.''After all, you are relying on your clothing, gear, and accessories not only to have a good time but to keep you safe as well. Whether it’s your first ski trip, your first time traveling with your own gear, or your tenth trip to the snow it’s never a bad idea to make sure you are properly packed. After spending months gallivanting around Europe, Japan, and North America chasing the winter here are the items we never want to forget.''The Snowboard and Ski Trip Essentials''Before I get into the essentials I want to stress the importance of packing in layers. When dealing with freezing temperatures and snow, wind, and water you should always be wearing three layers.''A base layer (thermal underwear). Your base layer is the layer of clothing touching your skin. Therefore you will want something comfortable and flexible. My base layer is usually a cotton base layer or polyester.\xa0Your base layer doesn’t have to be the most attractive thing in the world as no one will ever see it. This is your private, but essential layer.''Mid-layer (insulating layer). Mid layers are the next layer and go on top of your base.\xa0 They act as a base holiday warm air to your body.''Shell layer (jackets/snow pants). Shell layers are made out of waterproof and usually windproof material. It’s the main layer separating you from the outside world. A good shell jacket should not only keep you warm but protect you from the snow should you fall.''Now that we got that covered, we’ll move on to the things you''need.''No matter what you are going to want these essentials in your ski trip packing list.''Jacket'': Obviously if you going skiing or snowboarding you’re going to need an outer layer. A good jacket that will last you at least a season is going to be invaluable. You’ll want to look for one that is made out of\xa0\xa0Gortex or a similar waterproof material and see if it’s wind resistant. A jacket also doesn’t hold onto snow should /when you suffer a fall.''Good men’s option''//''Good women’s option.''Snowpants:''The other obvious items for a ski and snowboard trip is snow pants. Snowpants are essential for anyone heading up the mountain. You’ll want to invest in some durable ones as you will put a lot of wear and tear on these bad boys. Look again for waterproof and wind resistant material and a fleece inside will keep your legs warm. I like ski pants with at least two pockets so I can stash lip balm and cash away. Of course, you can always ditch buying the pants and jacket separately and''purchase a onesie''– we see many of those in the mountains even today!''Men’s Pants''//''Women’s Pants''Thermals'': Thermal underwear is essentially a base layer and is the closest clothing to come in contact with your actual body. It should fit you pretty tight and snug.''Men’s''//''Women’s''Sports bras'': If you are a woman and skiing or snowboarding you need sports bras. I would say to wear what you would wear to the gym and remember you’ll be stuck in for the whole day so pick something comfortable, breathable, and flexible.''Reebok makes my favorite sports bra.''Mittens:''Heavy duty mittens or gloves''will be your best friend on the slopes because no one likes when they can’t feel their hands. I personally like mittens because my hands stay warmer when all my fingers are touching one another. I know that many skiers prefer glovers so that they can separate their fingers more easily when dealing with their ski poles.''Wool Socks'': Depending on how long your ski holiday is I would recommend bringing an''ample amount of wool ski socks.''I personally travel with five and wear them three days in a row. I say “wool” and “ski socks” because wool is going to keep your feet the warmest and ski socks are tall enough to wear with ski and snowboard boots. Make sure that your socks are on over thermal layers every day and are pulled tight. Crinkles in socks will not only be uncomfortable but can cause blisters.''Neck gaiter'': I don’t wear scarfs when I snowboard because they are long and could get in the way. Instead,''neck gaiters''are efficient and pack up well in my bag. They allow my whole neck to be kept warm. On very cold days I wear them over my balaclava.''Balaclava'': I only wear a''balaclava''on very cold and windy days, as my helmet keeps my ears warm for the most part. Balaclavas cover the entire face and are a real lifesaver in windy and snowy conditions. Cameron travels with a fleece balaclava while I have a synthetic one. Cameron’s is warmer, but mine doesn’t get wet.''Goggles:''Years ago I never wore ski goggles, but these days I wouldn’t be caught on a mountain without them. They are an essential part of my snowboard ensemble because they allow me to see and protect my eyes. Good goggles should provide you with uninterrupted vision, should be polarized, and don’t fog easily.''We both travel with Smith goggles that have interchangeable lenses.''What to pack for a snow trip? The Gear''I’m not going to go into too much detail here, as you know your gear that you will be going to your ski trip packing list. If you don’t own your own gear, then you will be renting or borrowing from a friend and chances are you won’t have much say as to what you are given.''Ski or snowboard boots''Snowboard or skis''Ski poles''Bindings''H''elmet'': Not wearing a helmet is a thing of the past. Do yourself and your noggin a favor and''wear a helmet''when you ski or snowboard, whether you are a beginner or expert, a helmet should always be worn. The great things about helmets are they keep your head and ears warmer than hats too!''Snowboard or ski bag'': Wondering how to pack for a ski trip flight? If you’re traveling with your gear you will definitely need a high-quality bag to carry your stuff in. Cameron and I''have this bag and it fits two of our snowboards''both with bindings on, a pair of snow pants, and both of our boots. It’s a tight squeeze, but it’s gone off and on dozens of flights effortlessly and has wheels so we can roll the bag everywhere.''Here’s a good ski bag!''Extras''You don’t''need''any of these things, but they will definitely make your ski trip more enjoyable!''Sunglasses:''I don’t know about you, but I personally cannot be in the sun without sunglasses. Maybe it’s my fragile blue eyes but I always feel blinded by the sun and snow. A good pair of''athletic polarizing sunglasses''should be in your bag if you want to protect your eyes from the sun while having a beer outside. I like ones like these that aren’t fragile and won’t break in my backpack should I fall.''Hand and toe warmers:''I usually have a backup pair of these in my jacket pocket should it get really cold and my hands start to freeze. They are cheap if you buy them in bulk before you get on the mountain.''I suggest Amazon!''If you’re a skier you may want some toe warmers!''Waterbottle:''Staying hydrated is important when you are skiing and snowboarding. You may not realize it in the cold conditions, but you are actually burning a lot of energy so it’s important to refuel. There’s always a''travel water bottle''in my bag.''Thermis'': If you want hot coffee or tea in the morning on the slopes I would recommend packing a''thermos''full of your favorite brew.''Backpack (with an optional\xa0hydration pack):''If you’re comfortable carrying a''backpack while you ski''it may make your life easier. You’re able to fill it with lunch, water, and survival equipment if you are going off-piste.''Vaseline or lip balm:''Quite possibly the most important thing in my coat pocket. Make sure to pack extras for your ski trip as they are easy to lose.''Tiger Balm:''Muscle reliever''is your best friend when you spend all day out on the slopes, especially after your first and second day!''Lotion:''Lotion is invaluable to me when I’m taking part in snow and mountain activities. My skin can get really dry after a whole day on the slopes and some hotels don’t provide you with lotion, or it may not be the kind you like.''Sunscreen:''Yes, you can get sunburnt in the snow. Especially on a bright day the sun will bounce off the bright snow and reflect right back at you. If you are fair skinned I would definitely recommend packing a travel size bottle for your face.''Fitbit:''I recently got a''generic Fitbit''and absolutely love it! It tracks my steps, which I love off the slopes but I can also see my heart rate for the day and tune into my sleep cycle.''Protective Gear:''If you are a beginner and nervous of falling consider getting some protective gear. Because if you are scared of falling, it will hinder your learning and progression.''Hip/butt pads are great for snowboarders'', as well as wrist guards. And a back brace can do wonders for any skier.''Tissues''Protein Bars:''If you’re on a budget the last place you will want to eat is in mountain huts. Bring some protein bars for energy.''Casual winter wear and Apres Ski''Leggings:''For women,''I suggest wearing leggings under your snow pants''. I personally wear leggings every day of my life, so it’s no wonder they are the answer to my snow gear. Leggings are warm, flexible, and substitute as thermals. I prefer''fleece lined leggings like these.''They aren’t see through and I can easily wear them out to Apres Ski. When it’s a really cold day I’ll throw a pair of thermals on over my leggings.''Hiking pants:''Hiking pants''are great for off-piste activities.''Gloves or mittens:''I suggest bringing at least one pair of casual gloves or mittens for just walking around. I personally like the ones that have''touchscreen fingertips.''Earmuffs'': As a woman, I always travel with''ear muffs''. I wear my hair in a ponytail a lot so a\xa0toboggan doesn’t work, plus fluffy ones look cute in photos!''Hat'': Keep your head warm.''Winter boots:''I travel with two pairs of winter boots. One that''can handle the snow''but still look good when paired with leggings, and one''mid-calf pair of leather boots''for fancier occasions and dinners out. Cameron travels with one pair of hiking boots for the snow and for nights out.''Sweaters and fleece:''I would suggest at least one comfortable sweater for leisure and one flexible fleece to wear when skiing. I wear this''Patagonia''almost everyday under my jacket.''Comfortable pajamas'': Be comfortable when relaxing- enough said''. Here are some fitting mountain PJ’s!''The Nonessential (but fun) Stuff''Heated insoles''Bluetooth headphones''Snowboard''/''ski carrier''Fun apparel!''Mountain Flask''Bluetooth speakers to put in your backpack and ride''GoPro''or some sort of action camera with helmet clip. Check the''latest models and prices for GoPro here.''And finally, if you are going off piste or in avalanche risk areas you are going to want to carry avalanche risk equipment. Including''avalanche beacons'', avalance probes, and an avalance shovel. Another popular life saving device now is the''avalanche airbag''. The airbag system isn’t cheap, but it’s hard to put a price on your life!''Read Next:''Awesome Things to do in Banff in the Winter • SkiBig3\xa0 &\xa0 More!''50 of the Best Things to do in Canada''Ski in Zermatt • A Perfect Holiday Under the Matterhorn''Things to do in Grindelwald, Switzerland in the Winter''Tips to the Perfect Austrian Ski Holiday in Vorarlberg''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''The Ultimate Ski (and Snowboard) Trip Packing List''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Natasha''We landed in Sofia dreary eyed and exhausted from an epic''New Year’s Eve party in Edinburgh''. Our plan was to go skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria’s most popular ski resort to warm up for our ski tour through the alps at a more affordable price. When we stepped off the three hour bus journey from Sofia to Bansko, we were greeted with the beautiful Piran mountains, ready for some adventure and an epic Balkan ski holiday.''We learned a lot about having a ski holiday in this Bulgarian town, some good things, and some bad. It’s actually very hard to place a finger on how I felt after leaving Bansko, so I’ll try to break down some helpful tips about the experience here.''Skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria • 13 Balkan Ski Holiday Tips to Know''Get there early!''If there is one tip I can’t stress enough for your holiday in Bansko it is to arrive at the gondola station early.''Especially''on the weekend,''school holidays'', or high season. At its peak, the Bansko gondola becomes a total catastrophic mess. If I had never been to a mountain resort before it would honestly put me off from a ski holiday in general, so try to get there early (or better yet in the offseason) to avoid this feeling.''To reach the mountain you must take the gondola as the town sits at a much lower elevation. The one gondola services the thousands of ski pass holders and that means queue times can get ridiculous.''How ridiculous?''Think…two to three hours long in the high season! No one is happy spending their precious winter holiday in a line while wearing ski boots and carrying ski/snowboard gear. We suggest you arrive at the gondola right when it opens to avoid long wait times. That means 8 am or before. We made the mistake of getting there at 8:20 one day and waited 40 minutes in line. Then the next day we figured we would skip the whole morning rush and get there at 11:30 only to find the lines even crazier (two-hour wait).''Additionally, all those people taking the gondola up are clearly going skiing and snowboarding, meaning that during the high season the mountain\xa0becomes a madhouse as Bansko doesn’t put a cap on visitors. The morning time before 10 am\xa0was the quietest time for us to enjoy the pistes without a ton of other people. Additionally, if you venture off the blues and hit up the resorts few red and black runs you will also find less people.''The lines at the gondola''There are alternative ways up''When faced with a two-hour queue we knew our day would be shot if we waited. We had three options – to throw in the towel on snowboarding at Bansko for the day, take a cab up the mountain, or wait.''We decided to take a cab for 10 BGN per person in a shared van. Cabs can take you up to\xa0either the top station or to Shilligarnika where there is a chairlift. Be sure to agree to a price beforehand to avoid being ripped off. Vans typically don’t leave till full so it’s best if you are traveling as a group.''If you have a rental or your own car it is also possible to drive up the ski road. However, parking is limited so this should also be an early endeavor.''There is one saving grace if you are staying at one of the selected hotels that offers VIP fast passes. The fast pass ensures quick access to the Gondola lift via a private line/entrance. Prices for the Ski VIP lift tickets are roughly 75 BGN per day.''Buy your Bansko lift tickets the day before''This is a very important thing to know before you go skiing in Bansko. If you have not pre-purchased your lift tickets with a holiday operator then go to the gondola station the day before you plan to ski and buy them. As you cannot buy your lift tickets until the offices open at 8:30, but you will need your lift passes to get on the gondola which opens at 8 am…and remember what I said happens to the gondola after 8:30?''To avoid the lines you should buy your passes the day before. But hold on! Turns out that you cannot buy your lift passes for the next day until 4 pm the day before so plan accordingly.''Bring cash''While it is possible to pay for your ski lift passes with a credit card make sure to bring some Bulgarian Leva for your Bansko ski holiday. Whether it be taxi cabs, restaurants, or bars they often requested to be paid in cash.''Most of the restaurants\xa0on the slopes accept credit cards, but every time we tried to pay we were asked for cash. Plus no one wants to run a credit card for a few coffees or a drink. If you want to know how we manage foreign currencies read our''guide to travel banking''.''Lift tickets are affordable''Bulgaria is known to be an inexpensive country to travel. That remains true when it comes to costs associated with a Bankso\xa0ski holiday. One of the reasons we went to Bansko is because we could enjoy a full week here for a reasonable price. With lift tickets costing just 58 BGN a day, good fun can be had without breaking the bank.''There is also a good range of hotels around catering to every budget. Equipment rental and lessons can be had for a good price as well! It’s the perfect ski resort to come and enjoy the powder without forking over your soul for the Swiss Alps. To compare it to Italy or Austria we would say prices are about 30% cheaper, except in the case of restaurants that can be high priced in Western Europe.''Beginners are welcome''Due to the low cost in comparison to resorts in the European Alps, Japan, or North America, Bansko is a good place to come for beginners. You can buy package holidays that include your accommodation, food, lift tickets, and equipment for less than $1000 for one week. In a place like Colorado that could cost you double if not triple the price. If it’s your first ski trip you won’t truly know if you’ll enjoy skiing or snowboarding so it’s better to figure that out before dropping your retirement on a trip!''We found Bansko ski resort to be family friendly with a few bunny hills and beginner runs to learn on. Much less intimidating for a first timer than say Chamonix? We found many large families with children\xa0on the mountain and all seemed to be in good spirit (although much more crowded than other European resorts. Low prices = larger crowds.''The queues don’t end''I mentioned that there were serious queues to get up the mountain via gondola, but they don’t stop there. In the busy season, you’ll also find queues to get down the mountain as well! Don’t worry, they aren’t nearly as long as getting up but you could be standing around in your gear for a good 20-30 minutes before getting into your carriage down.''There is another way down the mountain and that is the ski road. The ski road is a long and easy piste from the resort to Bansko town. It’s great for beginners as it’s relatively flat. The ski road is easily the more active way to get down the mountain, but be forewarned this run can also get''very''busy towards the end of the day so you’ll have to know how to control yourself on a ski or snowboard to get down. After a few days of taking the ski road and witnessing a few collisions, we opted to take the gondola down at the end of the day.''Bring everything you will need for the day''Since you’ll have to take a 30-minute gondola ride up and either a gondola ride or long ski road down you’ll want to make sure to bring everything up to the mountain that you will need for the day.''I suggest doing a double check before you leave your hotel and make sure all hats, gloves, phones, chapstick, and everything in between is accounted for! Additionally, there are no lockers on the mountain, be prepared to carry it on your back all day.''Stay nearby''I would highly suggest staying near the gondola lift to make the most out of your trip. A hotel with a shuttle bus to the lifts is also going to make your life before and after your ski day much easier. We stayed at two different hotels while in Bansko, one self-catered and one a reasonable five-star hotel. We can’t sing enough praise about either place!''Premier Luxury Mountain Resort''The Premier Mountain Resor''t is one of the best hotels in Bansko. It’s about a five-minute drive, or 15-minute walk from the gondola station and is secluded from the rest of town. Premier Mountain Resort envelops you with charming mountain vibes once you walk inside. You can expect a roaring fireplace, lively bar, and large spa.''Besides being beautiful a few notable things we really enjoyed about Bansko’s Premier Luxury Resort is the attached ski shop. It is here that you can rent your gear with ease without having to bother going into town. We travel with our own snowboard gear but we did need to have our boards waxed, which we got done at the ski shop effortlessly and for an affordable price.''The hotel also has a basement ski room where you can store your gear. The room was spacious and had boot drying racks meaning we didn’t have to put on any wet items in the morning. There are two restaurants at Premier. One for buffet style and one ala carte as well as a bar with a modern fireplace and TV. We personally ate at the downstairs buffet restaurant for all our meals so that we could cram all the food we needed to keep energized for a week on the slopes – yes, there are vegetarian options! We found the bar to be extremely lively and a great place to recap the alpine''adventures''with your friends at the end of each day.''Besides the complimentary shuttle service that ran to the gondola in the morning and afternoon we found out that the Premier Mountain Resort is one of the only hotels in Bansko that offers the VIP Fast Pass. For 17 BGN extra you can purchase this type of lift pass and it essentially allows visitors to skip the gondola line and get straight on. Only a few high-end hotels offer this so to us this pass is gold.''You have a couple options for room choices at the hotel. We were upgraded to a mountain view junior suite which was comfortable and spacious. Every day we returned a to a toasty room and couch to relax on while working on the fast WiFi.''Check Prices Here!''Saint George Palace Hotel''After a few days at the Premier, we transferred to a self-catering hotel. We really like to cook our own food when we travel since we are pescatarians and somewhat picky eaters. The studio room at''Saint George Hotel''was perfect for us! As we walked in for the first time we were greeted with a large coat room to keep our snowboards in, a kitchen with a stove, oven, full sized fridge, living room, and king size bed with a foam mattress topper (seriously heaven when you travel full time). There are different sizes of apartments so no matter the size of your family the Saint George Palace will be able to accommodate your party comfortably. We enjoyed having free and fast WiFi in our room at the Saint George so that we could catch up on emails and social media after our day on the mountain.''The Saint George Palace hotel boasts an impressive swimming pool and spa area. Actually, they claim to have one of the largest swimming pools in Bansko and after having a dip I can say that it is wonderful. The pool is enclosed by a glass ceiling providing astonishing views of the Pirin Mountains above.\xa0 There is also a dry sauna and steam bath here which is perfect for relieving your muscles after an active day outside. For those that take a day off from the mountain activities (or want extra exercise), there is also a well-equipped fitness center.''There are two bars and a restaurant at Saint George Palace Hotel. The bars are great for catching up with friends and there is a play area for children as well so that adults can relax a bit without the kids! Although we didn’t need ski rental equipment the Saint George Hotel also offers a ski rental shop for visitors as well as a complimentary shuttle transferring guests to and from the gondola during peak operating hours.''Check Prices Here!''There are two Bansko town centers''After reading a few Trip Advisor reviews of the town of Bansko itself I was a bit hesitant to go. Things like “close to what war-torn Yugoslavia looks like” and “sex club galore” stuck in my mind. I can confirm that the area around the gondola is not an ideal place to spend a holiday unless you are an 18 year old boy. Around the gondola, Bansko is lined with clubs, go-go dancing bars, potholed streets, loud pumping music, and every restaurant has a male peddler outside persuading you to enter his establishment. To put it nicely, Bansko town wasn’t exactly my favorite or most relaxing ski town I have ever visited.''However, once you start walking away from the crowds and the main center the seedy party atmosphere\xa0starts to die town. Actually, Bansko turns quite charming and what I would expect from an old Bulgarian town.\xa0\xa0Bansko’s old town is actually a UNESCO World Heritage site, and a beautiful collection of old stone buildings and cobbled streets.\xa0 Just keep walking down Pirin Street about 10 minutes from the gondola and the whole atmosphere will be different. Be sure to check out the Velyanova house to go inside a traditional 18th century Bansko house for only 3 BGN.''There’s WiFi!''We found free and open WiFi at all the restaurants and bars on the mountain!''There are no lockers''There aren’t any lockers at the top of the mountain so anything you bring up you’re going to have to carry with you for the day. We really like to carry''a water bottle''and a few snacks with us when we travel so we would suggest bringing a''small backpack''and skiing or snowboarding with it throughout the day.''Brush up on your ski etiquette''As mentioned, it can get very busy on the mountain so be sure to practice proper ski etiquette! Always stay in control, be prepared to stop for others in front of you, understand your own skill level and abilities, and don’t stop in spots that obstruct others.''This one I saw a lot at Bansko – people stopping to fix their bindings or talk on their cell phone in the middle of the slope and have a chat with their friends in the middle of a run. Don’t be that person and you and others around you will have a fantastic Balkan ski holiday.''Would I recommend skiing in Bansko?''All in all, would I recommend a ski trip in Bansko? Looking at the price aspect, the food and accommodation options are definitely a bit cheaper than other ski towns in Europe. With a notable emphasis on the''food''part. Off the mountain, a pair could score a good and hearty meal in Bansko with drinks for less than $30.''In''Switzerland''or''Austria,''this would cost at least double the price. In the mountain huts, I found the food to be overpriced for Bulgaria with a coffee coasting 6 BGN and a lunchtime meal costing between 20-30 BGN. Lift tickets, although cheaper than in the Dolomites, Switzerland, and Austria are not''that much cheaper.''As I mentioned a one-day lift ticket will cost 58 BGN, or €30. A lift ticket in say Arlberg, one of Austria’s''(and the worlds) best ski regions is just €53''. So if you are on a major budget, I think Bansko is a good place to visit particularly for saving on food and basic lodging, but not lift tickets.''If you plan to take a ski holiday around the weekend or busy seasons – that is around Christmas, New Year’s, or European school holidays I would stay the hell away from Bansko simply because of the queues at the gondola and the madhouse of people on a small mountain resort. I seriously can think of way better things I could have done with my week than wait in a gondola line for a few hours every day. After talking to numerous locals they noted that in any period other than high season Bansko is a charming and quiet place to visit.''Read Next:''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''The Perfect Europe Packing List • Don’t Forget This Stuff!''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''How to Save Money for Travel – 22 Actionable Tips''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Skiing in Bansko, Bulgaria • 13 Balkan Ski Holiday Tips''was last modified:''April 17th, 2018''by''Natasha''Are you wondering what to pack for Africa? Packing for Africa can be downright daunting unless you have a handy Africa packing list. Whether you’re on an overland safari, a mission trip, or just traveling around the massive continent making sure you’re well packed for Africa is essential. Once you get outside of South Africa and African capital cities, it will be hard to replenish your wardrobe and even a little difficult to stock up on bare essentials so you will want to make sure you arrive equipped.''It’s true that Africa is a huge and vast continent and of course, the climate varies from what time of year you are visiting. I know you have probably seen the''movies about Africa''where people are decked out in khaki and dark green clothes, with their safari hats, and binoculars. However, the truth is you probably won’t need any of that gear unless you are actually in the bush or on safari. Don’t worry if that is you –''we have you covered here!''This Africa packing list is a guide for everyday travel around Africa. We have been traversing the continent for a year now and like to think we have nailed down what exactly to pack for Southern and Eastern Africa. Here are a few things to remember before you go on an African shopping spree.''Be sure to note what time of year you are traveling to Africa. The rainy season in Southern Africa varies greatly from the rainy season in Eastern Africa. If you are traveling during the rainy season a''rain jacket''is essential.''I like traveling to Africa with polyester clothing since it dries fast and doesn’t stain easily.''Just because it’s Africa doesn’t mean you should toss style out the window. I would recommend packing at least one dress or skirt for nice occasions.''Here’s a women’s safari clothing guide with stylish options.''Dark shades of blue attract the dreaded tsetse fly, which is found throughout parts of Tanzania, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, Zambia, and other general pockets of Africa. So it’s best to try and avoid this color.''You’ll be able to find local clothing in many villages off the side of the road. Big cities are your best bet for Western-style clothing.''You’ll always be able to find local women who will wash your clothing for you. For a small fee they will hand wash, hang dry, and many times iron your clothing for an affordable price. Plus it’s a job and a way for locals to support their families so I highly recommend seeking them out. I typically just asked wherever I was staying for recommendations.''The Ultimate Africa Packing List for Girls''Essentials “must take” items to Africa''Sturdy Shoes:''If you’re wondering what necessities to bring to Africa then sturdy shoes are\xa0perhaps the most important thing you will need before you get to Africa.I love my''Merrell Moab Ventilators''and have been going strong in them for two years!''Check out my other recommendations''here. I cannot stress a good pair of shoes enough because if you land anywhere outside of South Africa a quality pair of hiking shoes will be hard to come by.''Shower Flip Flops:''Unless you’re staying in only five-star lodges some shower flip-flops to escape nasty floors are vital.''Sturdy Sandals:''You won’t want to live in hiking shoes and you certainly won’t want to live in flimsy shower flip flops. A good pair of sandals are great for letting your feet breath while still maintaining comfort. I travel with my''Rainbow leather flip flops''as well as my''Merrell hiking sandals.''Sarong:''You will 100% be able to buy this from the local women around Africa, but if you want one before you land''here is one that I love''. Sarongs are great for just about anything – covering up at the beach, drying off after a shower, or just looking cute as a skirt.''Purchased in Zambia for $8!''Hiking Pants:''Lightweight, neutral colored pants are great for any kind of travel in general. I have two pairs of these kinds of pants. One pair is made by''PrAna and rolls into capris''and the other''zips off to make shorts.''Elephant Pants:''I literally live in my two pairs of''elephant pants''. They are perfect for Africa, especially in the more conservative countries. These pants are lightweight and weigh nothing in a carry-on bag. I could literally live in these pants if it were acceptable to wear them for breakfast, lunch, and dinner out.''A light button up:''I wear my''beige button up almost every night''. Many countries in Africa suffer from malaria – a disease that can be a little more prevented if you just cover your skin at night when the mozzies are out.''Loose and Light Shirts:''That being said almost every shirt you pack for Africa should be loose and light colored. It gets bloody HOT in Africa and trust me the last thing you will want to be wearing is a skin tight black top. I break down my favorite''safari shirts here!''Buff:''I''love my buff''. I usually wear it for keeping my hair back, but it’s also served its purpose as a scarf and wet rag too. Buffs last for years and aren’t only helpful in Africa. I actually wear mine everyday when I’m snowboarding in the mountains. It’s been one of my top travel accessory investments ever!''Sunglasses:''I would recommend taking at least''three pairs of sunglasses''with you on your trip to Africa. I wouldn’t be caught dead traveling around without some protection on my eyes and if one pair breaks I want to make sure I have back ups.''Long Shorts:''A good pair of''long shorts''will prevent against chaffing in the African heat.''Sports Bras:''No need for push up bras while you’re in the bush. I have seven pairs of sports bras and wish I had more. They get sweaty''real''fast here.''(My favorite brand to wear is Champion).''Sunscreen:''Please don’t leave home without''sunscreen''. You will need it underneath the African sun and it can be very hard to find in grocery stores in Africa (and when you do find it the pricing will be insane).''Electronics to add to your Africa packing list''Camera with Telephoto Lens:''If you can swing the money and are going on an African safari I would highly recommend investing in a proper camera. Those lions don’t look quite as majestic on an iPad. I travel with a''Fujifilm X-T10''as well as a''55-200 mm Fuji telephoto lens''for close-up shots. Cameron talks about his''favorite cameras for safari here.''Drone?:''We get a ton of questions about our''drone photography and videos around Africa''. If you want killer landscape shots of Africa from above consider getting a drone. We have the''DJI Phantom 3 Advanced''and have been quite happy with the video we get with it. Don’t know what I’m talking about?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel!''Phone:''We live in a digital age and I hate to say this but…our phones are our lifelines in Africa. They are our maps, our news sources, our online social lives, and yes they are even used as our telephones to get around. We always get a local sim card when we get to a new country and top it up with data and airtime so that we can call the local numbers in case of emergencies.''Adaptor:''One of the last things when considering what to pack when visiting Africa is an adaptor.''Most of Southern Africa uses the''plug M''. We arrived in Johannesburg without this adaptor and were stuck venturing around the city at night looking for one (not ideal). I would recommend getting a good one on Amazon before arriving. The further north you go the more you will see the British “''type G''” plugs, which we also have on stock.''Laptop:''I travel with my handy dandy''MacBook Pro''to keep up with this website and also entertain myself with movies while I’m bored in the African bush. To accompany my laptop I also travel with two''1 terabyte hard drives''that house all my movies and photos!''Medicines to Add to your Packing List for Africa''Malaria medicine'': \xa0Many people think that malaria is just like the quick flu and isn’t that serious – this is not the case. Malaria is very serious and if not treated can even lead to death.''Do your research''and determine if you are traveling to a malaria zone on your African trip. Most of South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and much of Northern Africa are not affected by malaria. My advice is to wait until you land in Africa to get your malaria medicine, it is cheaper and I find the information to be better than Western doctors who can barely tell you what the symptoms are. If you don’t have the time to get medicine after you land in Africa then make sure you have enough for your entire trip before you leave.''Diarrhea Medicine''Aspirin or''Ibuprofen''Antiseptic cream''Calamine Lotion''Mosquito repellant:''Can also be found at any supermarket in Africa.''If you forget a medicine at home, don’t panic! Pharmacies are located in many of the towns and cities around the continent.''Other useful items that should be on your Africa checklist''Swimsuit:''Outside of big cities it will be hard to find a swimsuit you are used to.''Lifestraw Go:''It’s not advisable to drink the tap water in most of Africa. We use the Lifestraw Go for all those times during our travels when the water is questionable. Saving money and saving plastic.''Hand Sanitizer:''Walking around and taking part in everyday activities in Africa can get pretty dirty. You can’t go wrong bringing some''hand sanitizer''and''baby wipes''in your bag.''Electrolyte Tablets'': Dehydration in Africa is a real concern and should be taken seriously. These tablets should have your body back to normal should you happen to fall sick.''Pillow and sheets:''Certainly not a necessity when packing for Africa but comes in handy when you get to a room and find the conditions are…less than desirable.''Floss:''If you cherish your teeth then make sure to pack extra floss before you get to Africa. Toothpaste and toothbrushes can be found just about anywhere.''Contact solution:''I have terrible eye sight, but I also hate wearing glasses. Contact solution isn’t easy to find in Africa and when you do find it it will be expensive.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Africa:''We hear about many of the places we stay in Africa through word of mouth. However in big African cities, we always check''Booking.com''first.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''All of these items I personally have and have tried and tested throughout Africa. Whatever you bring remember that you will be able to find most things that you need in Africa (especially in the capital cities). Some of these links are affiliate links, meaning we receive a small commission from anything you go on to buy. This helps us maintain our site and bring information to our readers!''Want to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''was last modified:''February 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''It was our second time to Scotland’s capital and for good reason, Edinburgh’s Hogmanay.''Edinburgh is well known for their festivals''and we had just missed The Fringe, the largest art festival in the world on our first visit. So, when we had the chance to return to celebrate another New Year in one of our favorite cities we couldn’t say no.''In case you’re curious “Hogmanay” is a Scots word for New Year’s Day.Edinburgh’s Hogmanay is one of their largest festivals and brings in around 75,000 people in order to celebrate the turning of the New Year.\xa0 Over the course of three days, there are various parties, events, and shows to keep you entertained. We were able to bounce around the city and experience the best of the festivities. Here are the highlights!''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''Torchlight Procession''The night before New Year’s Eve a large gathering of locals and tourists alike come together on the Royal Mile to light the way to the New Year. In 2017 nearly 17,000 people filled the streets with torches forming one massively lit parade. It is a sight to be seen, thousands of torches are lit while bagpipes and drums lead the torchbearers through the ancient streets of Edinburgh. The flames dance and bagpipes echo across the rows of old homes, churches, and cobblestone streets.''The procession ends in the Holyrood Park below Arthur’s Seat where a concert unfolds and the torchbearers form a word for the New Year. In 2018 the word is “braw” a Scots word for beautiful or grand as selected by the youth of Scotland. 2018 is the''Year of Young People''and the Scottish government is giving a voice to the young people of Scotland about the country they wish to see in their future.''Loony Dook''On New Year’s morning, a cast of crazy Scots and tourists head to the Colin Firth to take a dip in the freezing cold waters. The event takes place in South Queensferry and is a good time for everyone. Everyone shows up in costume in a lively mood, even amidst the hangovers. The parade starts just outside the town and the “Dookers” gather for their triumphant march down to the tidal river.''Our favorite costume went to a charismatic pair dressed as Carl and Russel from the Pixar movie Up. They managed to spend an uncountable amount of time in the freezing cold waters coaxing all to join them. We’ll also pretend we didn’t see President Drumpf and his Mexican Wall.''Christmas Market''No matter the fact that Christmas time has passed the cities wonderful Christmas market stays open until January 7th, or Three Kings Day. It’s easily one of the best Christmas markets in Europe with rides, shops, great food, and plenty of drinks.''New Year’s Eve!''On the night of the 31st, there are a plethora of private parties in various clubs, restaurants, and pubs. However, the real action takes place in the city streets with a large''Cèilidh dance''under the castle, a massive street party, and a concert in the gardens. There are performers littered throughout the city and the main street part features four stages of music, shows, and DJs.''Emma Ainley-Walker''Street Party''The street party is the cheapest ticket to the event, inevitably making it the largest of the events. It takes place along Princes Street and provides access to multiple stages with a slew of performers. The artists range from local bands, DJs, and Scottish and international performers.''The atmosphere is lively with everyone partying in the streets, dancing, singing, having a good time, and drinking plenty. This is Scotland after all.''Chris Watt''Cèilidh Under The Castle''This is by far the most local atmosphere and if you’re looking to ring in the New Year like a proper Scot this is the spot for you. A\xa0Ceilidh is traditional Gaelic dance and concert. It’s a party with bagpipes, fiddles, drums, accordions, and traditional music. It’s a great experience for travelers in''Scotland''or''Ireland''to get a feel for local traditions.''They play classic songs and dances. It’s great for couples as the dance is done in pairs and with other couples. We had a blast attempting to dance like we were Scottish with festival goers around. There’s no need to worry about knowing the dance steps as the band leader will instruct you in between sets.''Concert in the Gardens''In Princes street gardens a large stage is erected and draws in a headline act every year. In 2017 the headline act was Rag N’ Bone Man. His massive hit song “Human” hit number two in the U.K. and the''music video has nearly 500 millions''views on Youtube. Needless to say there was no shortage of fans lining up to see him perform.''His performance was amazing and the massive castle at his back did not overshadow his powerful voice. Every year Edinburgh’s Hogmanay manages to snag a great headline artist to lead everyone in''Auld Lang Syne.''Ian Georgeson''Midnight Moment''When the clock strikes midnight there is no place better to be than the concert gardens as the castle high above the city displays an amazing (and long) fireworks display.''The sky is alight with a dizzying array of fire all set to a score by a local band in Edinburgh. It is by all means one of the best shows either of us have ever seen.\xa0 You don’t need to take our word for it, just watch the video below.''Tips for going to Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''Book your tickets in advance. The most desirable tickets such as the Ceilidh, Concert, and Hogmanay HQ sell out almost every year. Keep up to date with the''Edinburgh Festivals website!''Grab a meal before the festivities start. If you’re looking for some great food we’ve been to some of''Edinburgh’s best restaurants''. You can find food stalls in the street party, but it’s very limited and long lines.''As it is the holidays make sure you secure your accommodation well advance, or you’ll be paying a high price for last minute bookings. You can check out our''best hotels in Edinburgh here.''Most importantly – HAVE FUN!''Read Next:''Scotland Travel Guide''20 Fun Things to do in Edinburgh on Your First Trip''10 Things to Know Before you Travel to Scotland''What to Pack for Scotland • Don’t Forget This Stuff''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay • Celebrating New Year’s Eve in Scotland''January 21, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''10 Things to Know Before you Travel to Scotland''November 28, 2017''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay • Celebrating New Year’s Eve in Scotland''was last modified:''February 10th, 2018''by''Cameron''2017 is over and looking back we can’t decide if it was a''great''or a''terrible''year. Travel and blog-wise\xa0The World Pursuit had a fantastic year starting off in Africa, and bringing us back to a few of our favorite spots in Europe. We traveled to 15 countries, took 32 flights, and covered over 40,000 miles – much of that overland!''Plus we found out''how beautiful Scotland was'', and decided to go back three months later! Personally, it was a tough year for both Cameron and I. We both experienced a couple deaths in the family, never found the temporary\xa0home we had hoped for, and let the blog take over our relationship.''To many people, our lives look like a neverending vacation. While we are grateful that we have been able to turn our passion for travel into a job, work from anywhere, and set our own hours the truth is we too get tired, discouraged, burnt out, and deal with many problems just like everyone else.''I’m not complaining as we are very fortunate, I’m just trying to be truthful with you all and show a glimpse of the ups and downs we go through. This is the first time we have written one of these posts, but we have both decided that we need to be more personal with our brand and blog in 2018.''I also wanted to put this post together for ourselves, to help us remember the struggles and accomplishments we had this past year and how we move forward with our future travels.''Here’s a look back at the highlights, lowlights, and plans for the future.''We finished our Hashtag Africa adventure''If you have been following our blog for awhile (thank you!) you’ll know that we tried to tackle a massive dream in Africa. We''bought a Land Cruiser in Cape Town,''with the intention to drive it as far north as we could. When we were traveling around South Africa we had never intended to spend a year in Africa or to buy a car. But to be honest, after traveling around a few of the Southern African countries we fell in love (''hello Mozambique!'') and wanted to travel more of it on our own.''After''almost two months in Cape Town''and dealing with South African bureaucracy, we had managed to get our hands on a 1989 Toyota Land Cruiser that we named Charlie. We drove around South Africa, Mozambique, Swaziland, Lesotho, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and spent the new year at a party in Lusaka, Zambia!''From Lusaka, we drove 1300 kilometers in the''wrong direction during the rainy season in Africa'', which was not a fun time. After that, we had some much-needed relaxation time on the shores of''Lake Malawi''for a few weeks, before setting off for''Tanzania''. Our goal was to drive into the bush of Tanzania and do more of our own bush camping in the middle of nowhere. However, we were eight months into our Africa adventure and we were downright exhausted.''We made a beeline for''Zanzibar''and ended up eating fresh seafood and enjoying the turquoise water and Swahili culture too much to leave. From Zanzibar, we made our way back to mainland Tanzania and continued on our overland journey. Then one night, disaster struck.''We survived a flash flood''As we were in a bar hiding from the rain while camping commotion hit. A dam nearby had burst and the campsite we were camping it was in the direct path of the flood. Our tents and belongings were floating in muddy water, the Maasai guards were screaming for everyone to get to high ground, but our car\xa0was in the middle of what was quickly changing from a waterlogged campsite to a flash flood.''With moments to make a decision, we bolted to the car, waist deep in water to retrieve our passports, cash, cameras, laptops, and anything valuable. It wasn’t the wisest choice to be caught in dangerous waters, but it was a quick one. Cameron was convinced the car would float away, while I was crying thinking our whole Africa trip was over and our car and investment in it were gone.\xa0 It took a few minutes to realize how selfish I was being. There were people with homes, children, and livestock in danger and not to mention the owners of the now destroyed campsite watching the thick mud engulf their home.''After the amazing staff at the''Snake Park Arusha''gave us some dry clothes and a room for the night all we could do was sleep through the rain and hope for the best in the morning. We woke up to a complete mess, but our car, although damaged and needing repairs was still intact and everyone was safe. Although, we were told that a slew of unfortunate goats got caught in the disaster.''The flash flood was the weakest point of our trip and something we don’t talk about often. We never wrote about it on our blog, but Australia’s largest news site asked for an interesting piece from our trip,''so you can catch the full read here if you are interested.''We left the car in Arusha for repairs while we went on safari in the''Ngorongoro Crater''and the Serengeti. From Tanzania, we drove on to Rwanda and Uganda.''We ended up selling our car in Uganda''because we couldn’t get it across the border to Kenya without a carnet. Marking the conclusion of''our''Hashtag Africa trip camping in the bush with our own car. Then we flew to Kenya…''We went on one EPIC African safari''By this point in our trip, our blog and social channels have become quite the authority on Africa related content, and we now consider ourselves somewhat of safari experts. We were being approached by safari and tour operators who wanted to work with us, and still are a year later. An''African safari''is by no means a''cheap endeavor''so we were fortunate enough to partner with many brands and tourism boards to go on many wonderful safaris and provide our follower’s the information regarding safari in Africa.''It was the first time all our hard work was really starting to pay off and we are proud of what we have seen and done. It took two months to go to the''Masai Mara'',''Nairobi National Park'',''Diani Beach'',''South Luangwa National Park'',''Kafue National Park'',''Lower Zambezi'', Mana Pools,''Hwange National Park,''The Selous'', and''Ruaha National Park''.''At one point we were canoeing down the''Zambezi River with hippos and crocodiles'', while camping along the river banks, and living in the wilds of Africa. A week later, we were woken up by elephants rubbing against our tent to munch on some tasty leaves. There is nothing quite like coming face to face with the most dangerous and incredible land mammal in the world with a screen mesh between you in the middle of the night.''Looking back at it now we can’t believe it all happened. After a year traveling around Africa, it is amazing and we are dying to return. It’s one of the last places on earth that feels raw and wild, and even that is unfortunately disappearing.''We said goodbye to family''My grandparents had been in bad health since I was in college so I can’t say it was a complete shock when my grandfather passed away in March. I was camping in the middle of Rwanda when it happened, so I didn’t find out until I had reconnected with the world and WiFi while on Lake Kivu. Although it wasn’t unexpected I had talked to my parents just days before and all seemed well. It was the first time I had ever experienced someone close to me dying and I was crying on the inside and out.''I didn’t tell anyone about it because I am terrible when it comes to talking about death and anything personal. It was hard for me to be so far away from family at this time, but my parents pushed us to complete our Hashtag Africa trip. I didn’t know what to do, so I decided to stay in Rwanda – which I’ll never know if I made a good or bad choice.''Less than a month later my grandmother passed away when we were yet, again, in the middle of nowhere. This time I was shaken up and shocked, for I had just spoken to her a few days earlier and all seemed very well. I knew right then that she wanted to be with my grandfather and although I was sad, I was happy that all their suffering from health issues over the years had come to an end.''Again, I stayed in Africa to finish out the next four weeks that we had planned before returning home. Am I a terrible person for not going to their funerals? Sometimes I think that I am, but I am happy for all the time I had with them when they were alive as we were very close.''We made it home the beginning of June and we were both very much relieved for some rest and to be near family. Not long after returning stateside Cameron’s grandfather passed away as well. He had also been suffering from cancer from the past year, but the family thought he was doing quite well for a man of 81. I’m just happy that Cameron was home with his family in North Carolina and was able to see him before he died.''We enjoyed being home!''It wasn’t all deaths and sadness this year. I got to attend two weddings while I was home in Michigan! It had been almost two years since we were home in the US and after our year-long trip in Africa we were both ready to stay put in one spot for a bit and see family.''I went home to Michigan while Cameron went to North Carolina.''I love Michigan in the summertime'', being around family and friends, and living without expenses while visiting home never hurts either. Yes, despite working with many hotels and brands we still spend A LOT of money when we travel.''Visiting Northern Michigan''Enjoying the beach in Wilmington!''I was happy to be home this summer because it meant I could go to one of my best friend’s wedding and my stepbrothers. Both were beautiful and it was great to see the love all around and be involved with all the festivities. Being on the road full time means I don’t get to do these type of things, and it felt good to say yes to events for once.''I was able to visit Cameron in North Carolina, which is where we''both went to school and met.''We took a mini trip to''Asheville and enjoyed the mountain''s and also\xa0stayed on the coast where Cameron’s family lives.''Scotland is spectacular''Neither of us had ever been to Scotland so we decided that we should go back to Europe and travel to some of the places we had missed previously. Our first stop after our visit home''was to Scotland''. We embarked on an''eight-day road trip around the Northern Highlands''. Winding roads, turquoise water, dramatic cliff faces…I never knew Scotland was so beautiful – even with all the rain!''After the trip, I decided to make a video of our trip on Facebook and YouTube. The Facebook video took off like wildfire and within the first 24 hours, it had over one million views. We’ve had a few viral videos in the past, but nothing that has spread that fast. Although I made the video over four months ago it still gets shared and has over seven million views now. Thanks to the video, we gained a huge amount of UK followers and we are happy to have them on board!''We scratched off a bucket list destination''After Scotland, we were able to scratch off a huge dream destination. It’s wasn’t Italy or Hawaii,''but the Faroe Islands.''You may have never even heard of them – and I completely understand as they’re a very tiny island nation. The Faroe Islands are a tiny group of islands between Iceland and Norway and look something like this:''There is a direct flight from''Edinburgh''so we figured what the heck! The weather is pretty unpredictable in the Faroe Islands and it rained almost our entire weeklong trip. Although we wish the rain could have let up just a little the islands were still gorgeous and unbelievable! In all our travels they are the most surreal place we have ever seen or experienced.''Our blog is growing''We never write about blogging, and it’s not something we plan on doing in the future. There is just so much of the same information out there on “how to start a travel blog” and “how to be location dependent,” that we don’t see the need to add more clutter to the mix. So, this may be the only time you see us reference our blog this year.''At the start of 2017, we had about 35,000 readers on The World Pursuit. We were small to many other blogs, but we felt happy with how many people joined us on our adventure through Africa. However, we wanted to build our website and connect with an audience. For all the fun we were having during the day we spent every night in front of our laptops. We still do, and I’m not sure that will change anytime soon.''When we took a break from traveling to visit home for two months we worked all day and all night. Most days started in front of the computer with a cup of coffee and a smoothie and ended at 2 am in front of the computer with a cup of tea!\xa0 I can’t think of a single day this past year where I wasn’t thinking about our blog. Every time we travel and say we need WiFi or have to work someone''always''says to us “But you’re on vacation!”''However, the truth is we aren’t on vacation. We are traveling of course, we are promoting a destination, we are creating video, we are working – just when the rest of you are sleeping.\xa0 Although I know to outsiders it looks like we just type some words on the computer and post a photo to Instagram and call it a job. But in reality, it is a lot of work, and we put an incredible amount of time into building our brand, our website, and our social channels.''Please don’t take it as complaining, as I wouldn’t change it for anything. The freedom to work from anywhere at anytime is liberating although we put more than 40 hours a week (each) into''The World Pursuit''.''I guess what I’m trying to say is all our hard work in 2017 paid off! We’ve quadrupled our readership this past year and are now averaging 100,000 readers to our website a month. That means''over a million people will visit this website in 2018''. And with the next year and more hard work, we hope to double that!''We’re focusing on video''We started the new year with a short fun video of our time in Botswana. At the time the video took off on Facebook and we decided we should be showing more of our Africa trip through video. Instead of just doing video or a blog we stuck with both. A strategy we have still stuck with over a year later, though it takes a ton of extra work and something we find we don’t always have time for.''However, we’ve seen the reward with video and have landed a few campaigns and paid projects because of our video work. In 2018 we are going to continue shooting video of the destinations we travel. Our goal is to do more vlog style videos with us in them rather than some of the drone videos we’ve had so much success with in the past. Stay tuned and be sure to''subscribe to our YouTube channel!''We attended our first travel conference''November brought us back to gloomy London for our first travel conference, World Travel Market. We spent two days meeting with tourism boards and PR firms pitching ourselves and our blog around. We left the conference with a few definite projects to work on in 2018, and who knows maybe we will hear back from other destinations. It’s hard to ever know with travel conferences if they are worth going to or not, but regardless the experience was a fabulous networking event for our rather new blog.''We yearn for a base''More than two years ago we realized we wanted a home outside the United States. The plan was to travel for a bit and decide where that home would be located. However, plans change and travel opportunities present themselves so we still haven’t settled down and haven’t called anywhere home since we left''New York in 2015.''Long-term travel is exhausting. We live out of a suitcase, find ourselves moving locations every two to three days, and we’re never in a familiar location. On top of that, we feel like we’ve lost many friendships and haven’t gained many meaningful new ones. We are not near family, fail to keep a consistent diet, commit to hobbies, and don’t feel as fit as we could – something that is important to both of us.''In an ideal world, we would find a different base somewhere in the world every year. We would still travel, just not full time. We would be able to call somewhere home! 2018 is the year we are going to make that happen and we’re prepared to turn down new opportunities to hit the goal.''Don’t get us wrong – this lifestyle has done great things for us. We’ve learned so much about the world, about each other, and have seen more of the world than most in a lifetime, and we’re not even 30. It’s hard to focus on our business and other goals when we’re spending the night sorting out bus timetables and where we are staying the next day.''A few have asked we want to base ourselves and we can’t seem to make up our find. Places that are on our list are Bali, Colombia, British Columbia, and Nicaragua. Bali because it’s cheap, beautiful, warm, and a hub for digital nomads. Colombia for the culture and a big desire for us to learn Spanish, not to mention it’s gorgeous. British Columbia to live out our mountain vibes further our photography and active lifestyle – it’s also simple as Americans to live in Canada as we work remotely. And who doesn’t want to live on the wonderful beaches of Nicaragua and again we want to learn Spanish.''What about 2018?''We have started the new year in the mountains. For a few years, we’ve wanted a proper snowboard season. We are both intermediate riders, but this winter we’ll be heading to various ski resorts around Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Liechtenstein, Canada, and maybe even Japan to improve our riding and get more into the sport. Cameron has long dreamed about pursuing backcountry riding and we’re hoping to progress to that level in a few years. Watch out mountains! We love feeling like we have a hobby again (that isn’t working on our blog).''After that, the world is an open book.\xa0\xa0We’ve spent all of the past three years in North America, Africa, and Europe. And while we can’t wait to get back to Africa and love Europe we have come to the conclusion that we need and want to focus on other destinations. Although we traveled to South America, Asia, and Australia years ago we don’t have any content on this website about those regions. so we are going to aim at showing you guys around lesser known places in between finding a home.''As mentioned, we are going to be doing a lot more filming and growing our YouTube and Facebook video. We’ve also talked about running tours to Africa in 2018 so we can show you just how amazing it is!''Mozambique''and''Namibia''are on the table. What do you guys think? Is there anything that you would like to see or a way we can help you travel?''Not much of a reader? Check out the video!''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''was last modified:''January 17th, 2018''by''Natasha''Europe is no stranger to gorgeous beaches with the Mediterranean, Adriatic, and Black Sea, but it’s the Algarve may be one home to some of the best''beaches on the continent.''The Algarve beaches have some of the tastiest waves, cleanest water, and most dramatic landscapes. To top it off the Algarve boasts an average of 300 days of sunshine each year!''It’s a fabulous spot to head in the summer and shoulder season when the rest of Europe begins to get a little dreary.''Forget the October blues''– the Algarve is still warm and sunny. We had a debate about where to head for November in Europe, as''winter in Europe''isn’t always known for having the best weather. We ultimately (and thankfully) landed on Portugal.''Portugal is a year-round destination where vacationers and locals alike can be found body surfing, parasailing, deep sea fishing, water skiing, and surfing year round. We spent November and December gallivanting around the best beaches in the Algarve and enjoyed every sun-kissed day to the fullest.\xa0Here are a few of our favorite spots!''Check out the beautiful Algarve and Portugal beaches on YouTube''The Best Beaches in the Algarve''Praia do Tonel''Praia do Tonel is one\xa0of the most popular beaches in the Algarve region. The beach is located just outside Sagres and draws quite a crowd in the summer. As the beach area is large you can easily come here in the middle of the summer and still maintain your own personal space.''The beach is located down a set of stairs. There is plenty of parking nearby and a few cafes and surf shops all around the Sagres fortress. During the summer you’ll find restaurants, a WC, and a surfing school all on the beach. The waves here seemed mild and a good place for beginner surfers to come and practice as well!''Praia da Figueira''Praia da Figueira beach requires a bit more effort to reach than most, but still not a ton! Visitors will have to park almost a kilometer away from the beach and hike down through a serene valley. The inaccessibility\xa0means there are fewer people here and no imposing cars or engine sounds.''The beach is surrounded by warm colored cliffs and if you go for a walk to the east you will see 16th-century ruins. Out of all the beaches on this list, this is probably the least visited making it an easy addition to the best beaches in the Algarve.''Praia do Zavial''Praia do Zavial beach is the best beach in all of the Algarve in our opinion. Zavial is located in Vila Do Bispo, where the Atlantic meets the warm Mediterranean. The cliff to the west is majestic and massive, with limestone tiers\xa0covered in Mediterranean scrub. We had a fun day here soaking up the warm sun and even declared Zavial to be one of the best beaches to visit in the world.''There a few trails to climb around the cliffs here, and you’ll have to head to the eastern end of the beach for a more quiet experience.\xa0We came here for some sunbathing, but the real show started around 4 pm when the sun started to set and the surf picked with a line up of surfers.\xa0 It’s well known for having some of the best surf in''the Algarve''!''Praia do Amado''Praia do Amado is the largest beach we visited in the Algarve. Situated in the south of Aljezur, Amado’s long stretch of beach covers three valleys and features warm red cliffs. The waves here are constant and always changing making it a yet another great place for surf in the Algarve.''I didn’t know this when we visited but learned later that this beach is famed for hosting international surf competitions. On the beach, there is a surfing school. Neaby to the rather large parking area you can also find a year-round food truck with picnic table benches. Even though this beach is popular, its size means that it is very easy to tuck away and enjoy your privacy. Above the beach, there are wooden walkways making it easy for visitors to stroll around and enjoy the views.''Praia do Beliche''Praia do Beliche is situated in a bay between Cape St. Vincent and Sagres Point. Because of its location, the beach is sheltered from harsh winds. Here there is a large parking lot with about 100 campervans scattered about.''From there it is an easy and wide staircase\xa0that will take you down to the beach. It’s a great beach for sunbathing, but given the lack of wind, Beliche beach is great for bodyboarding and surfing. This beach is also an optimal place for sunset viewing. You can watch natures show every day on top of the rock formations.''Cabo de Sao Vicente''This is not a beach, but we felt we should mention\xa0the Cape of Saint Vincent as it’s the''tip of Portugal.''The cape is the Southwestern most point in Europe.\xa0 Here the jagged cliffs rise up 60 meters to house a lighthouse, one of the brightest in Europe that can be seen up to 60 miles out to sea!''Cabo Sao Vicente lies only 6km to the west of Sagres and about 40km from Lagos. You can’t lay out on the beach here, but come here for sunset and magnificent views! There is also a museum, an outdoor cafe, and a little souvenir shop.''Praia da Balança''This was the first beach we visited in the Algarve and it blew us away. It’s only a few minutes drive out of Lagos is Praia Da Balança, but you could also walk there from Lagos if you have the energy. Comprised of small sandy bays on the eastern side of Ponta da Piedade, Balança provides amazing views of stand-alone cliffs. There are a few walking trails where you can see the dwarf fan palm and other Mediterranean wonders. For the brave, you can get up to the top of some of these.''The effects of erosion are incredible at Praia da Balanća as you’ll see many rocky ledges, arches, caves, and sinkholes. You can also set off a boat trip from nearby Ponta da Piedad lighthouse to check out the rock formations from the water. There isn’t an easy way to access the beach here without risking a fall. So the best way to get on a beach is by boat – otherwise, it’s wise to admire from above!''Praia do Canavial''Praia do Canavial is an isolated beach near Lagos city center and is completely peaceful and surreal. It’s narrow and framed by the cliff faces and certainly one of the most beautiful beaches in Portugal. Because it’s so narrow it is advised to only visit Canavial during low tide.''Access is only by foot from a small trail along the cliff top where you can park your car (though parking is limited). Depending on tides I suggest to come here at sunset!''Praia dos Estudantes''I wouldn’t say that Praia dos Estudantes is the most beautiful beach in the Algarve, but given it’s accessibility to the center of Lagos it’s a must visit if you are in town. You can walk right onto this beach from the town and enjoy the sun all within a few steps of a nearby cafe or restaurant.''It’s a small space where young, old, and smokers from all walks of life could come and be at the beach with the world. There are a few small tunnels that have been dug by hand, one giving access to a small bay nearby. I personally wouldn’t recommend crawling through these if you are claustrophobic.''Praia de Benagil''Praia de Benagil beach is compact, but well commercialized because of the nearby Benagil Sea Caves which tourists can visit via boat (or swim if you are a decent swimmer). Parking is at the top of the valley and it is about a 500-meter walk down to this beach. Praia de Benagil is surrounded by a small fishing village.''The area is not absent of restaurants and cafes, and quite a few cats! If you want to get out to the sea caves by boat I recommend booking online in the summertime. In the off-season, it is quite easy to walk up to the small booth and be on the next boat out. The tours last around an hour and a half and are €30.''Praia do Carvalho''Right next to Praia de Benagil is Carvalho Beach. Either you can walk to it from Benagil or drive your vehicle. This beach is a popular one for cliff jumping and there is a trail that leads to through a series of cliffs to watch.''From the cliff, you’ll also have fantastic panoramic\xa0views of the entire coastline. The plants you’ll be surrounded by on the cliffs are a Mediterranean\xa0saltbush and saltwort. In the summertime, this is an ideal beach for swimming as there are arches and caves to swim into.''Carvoeiro Beach''Carvoeiro Beach is a decent sized beach when the tide is out and is right next to the town of Carvoeiro. If you’re looking for a beach that you can just walk on and off of in between bar hopping, ice cream, and shopping Carvoeiro is for you.''During the summers you’ll find loungers to hire around the beach, which is great because you get sun here for most of the day. It’s proximity to town means easy access and lots of people. Sometimes they’ll even have live bands nearby!''Praia da Marinha''Nearby to Benagil,\xa0Praia da Marinha is one of the most popular and beautiful beaches in the Algarve, if not one of the best beaches in Portugal. Praia da Marinha is a small bay with bright blue and turquoise water surrounded by emerging limestone cliffs. There are a variety of different rock formations, including arches, caves, and ledges which are all easily accessible from the shore and make for a nice swim.''It’s possible to scuba dive or snorkel here and see the various octopuses, seahorses, and bream.\xa0 At the cliff top, you can embark on a nature walk, have a picnic, or admire the east and the west. Both of which are equally beautiful. If you can only visit one beach in the Algarve, I would recommend it to be this one.''Praia do Camilo''Only a few minutes walk away from\xa0Praia da Balança\xa0is Praia do Camilo. In the summertime, this beach is packed, but if you are here in the off season you may be lucky and have the beach to yourself (like us). Views from this beach are beautiful and you can swim in the water among impressive\xa0calcarenite cliffs.''To access the beach there is a car park with a small cafe at the top. A long wooden staircase leads\xa0to this heaven. From there you’ll find there are actually two beaches that used to be separated by a massive cliff, but a tunnel has been dug out by hand to allow passage.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Portugal''Wondering what to bring to Europe?''Check out our ultimate''Europe packing list.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the tap water in Portugal fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''Remember that Portugal uses the''Europlug''. Many adapters around Europe are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged.''Read Next:''24 Essential Beach Packing List Items You’ll Want for Vacation''A Smart and Essential Portugal Packing List''The Six Best Beaches In Cyprus to Explore''Affordable Yachting in the Mediterranean with MedSea Yachts''Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''The 14 Best Beaches in the Algarve''was last modified:''May 3rd, 2018''by''Natasha''January is here and so are sub-zero temperatures, it is the time of year many people want to turn into a bear and hibernate. After all, not everyone wants to be like us head for the cold winter destinations. Come winter time''all-inclusive resorts in Punta Cana''bring in large crowds of tourists looking for a winter escape.''We’ll be the first to admit the beach is our happy place. If you’re feeling down about the cold winter blues then trade in your''down jacket''for a''swimsuit and suntan lotion''and head to a tropical destination.\xa0We’ve been all over the world and the beaches of the Carribean can indeed compete with the best of them. In fact, the Dominican Republic has the most''Blue Flag beaches''of any Caribbean destination. Punta Cana is regarded as one of the most beautiful regions to travel with a plethora of great all-inclusive resorts, such as Barcelo. The appeal is real with full catering, drinks, no schedule, and a gorgeous beach. It’s tough to argue against the appeal for many travelers.''There’s plenty of sun and beautiful white sand beaches with gentle waves to lap away your days. Of course, if sitting on the beach isn’t the only thing you desire the island’s resorts have plenty of activities to offer guests. By plenty, we mean 18 hole golf courses, baseball diamonds, soccer fields, beach volleyball, pools, and fitness centers. Punta Cana is the perfect place to catch a tan, have a few drinks and get a good workout in before heading back to reality. If you’re wondering what all there is to do in Punta Cana, we have you covered!''Things to do in Punta Cana''Go for a sunset horseback ride''We’ve taken a wide array of tours, but our favorite to do is a horseback tour.''(We just went in Iceland!'') There are a number of companies that offer horseback riding tours around Punta Cana. After all, nothing says romantic like a horseback ride on the beach at sunset. For those looking for romantic things to do in Punta Cana with your significant other, this tops the list.''Hit the links''With plenty of sunshine and warm weather, Punta Cana makes for a great place to hit the links. There are several world-class golf courses stretched along the Dominican Republic coast. It’s the perfect spot to head for those looking to keep their game strong while the winter rages back at home.''Go to Samana on day trip''Head to one the most beautiful regions in the Dominican Republic as a day trip. There are plenty of tours to explore the Samana peninsula via land, bus, and boat. Cool off in the turquoise waters of El Salto del Limon considered the most serene waterfall in the country. Most day trips also include a visit to Cayo Levantado (aka Bacardi Island) and lunch!''Take a catamaran cruise''A catamaran cruise is a\xa0popular excursion for visitors to Punta Cana. The trip involves a day of island hopping, snorkeling, drinking pina coladas, and lounging on the deck. Finish the day with a cookout on the beach with some tasty local seafood. Don’t worry there’s plenty of drinks and sun to go around.''Try a dune buggy tour''If you love a bit of a thrill on your holidays then a dune buggy tour or ATV tour is the perfect thing to do in Punta Cana. You get a chance to explore the beauty of the island in a whole new and thrilling way!''Drink it up''If you’re looking to let loose and drink some rum on the beach then you’re in luck – it’s the Carribean! You can find cocktail bars, swim up pool bars, and beach bars at many of the all-inclusive resorts as well. So don’t hold back on the margaritas and tequila sunrises!\xa0 To make matters better, or worse, you can find nightclubs scattered around Punta Cana so the party never has to stop. Popular clubs include ORO, Imagine, and Legacy Disco Club.''Catch some waves''Since Punta Cana is on the Dominican Republic’s windward Atlantic side you get some great surf. If you’re a novice at surfing there are a number of resorts and companies that offer surf lessons with board rentals. We couldn’t think of a better place to learn then the gorgeous beaches of Punta Cana.''Take a day trip to Santo Domingo''The capital of the Dominican Republic also happens to be the very first European settlement in the Western Hemisphere. It is here that you can travel back five centuries to check out the preserved colonial buildings from the past.\xa0 Fun Fact! The city was founded by Christopher Columbus’s brother in 1496, which makes it the oldest inhabited European settlement in the Americas.''Get to the chopper!''We’ve only taken one helicopter tour in''Cape Town''before and ever since have sung praises about chopper life. Punta Cana and the surrounded water are an impressive sight, especially from above! You may get lucky and even spot a few shipwrecks!''Read Next:''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''Don’t be a Tourist in New York City''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''Where are the Seychelles? The Islands We Now Dream About''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''Nine Fun Things to do in Punta Cana''was last modified:''January 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''It’s tough to beat a good road trip. With so much to see it’s hard to narrow down the best road trips in the world, but we gave it a try. There’s no formal ranking system here, it’s just from our personal experience and opinions.''After all our travels, it’s safe to say we’ve done our fair share of road trips. Not because we love sitting in the car, but because we love the freedom. A tank full of gas and a car to carry us along the way is the quintessential travel experience.''These are our best road trips in the world. Get behind the wheel, fill up the tank, and turn up your''favorite travel tunes''for these epic road trips.''Best Road Trips in the World''Cape to Cairo''“Cape Town to Cairo” is exactly what it sounds like. The route is the brainchild of colonialist''Cecil Rhodes''as he put forth the idea of a train line extending the breadth of the continent. The train, nor road, ever happened. However, many intrepid travelers choose to tackle the route themselves.''This huge trip is not a short one taking anywhere from 30 days to two years – or longer! You''can self-drive,''cycle, take an overland bus, go on public transport, or even walk! Each presents its own set of challenges, and only a few have completed the epic journey. With infrastructure lacking many travelers find themselves camping, tackling trails in 4x4s, and heading deep into the bush.''We attempted this 10,000-mile journey in 2016. After''purchasing\xa0a car in Cape Town''with the intention to drive as far north as we could, we ended in Kenya and''sold the car in Uganda''. It was all due to uncertain border conditions in Egypt and Sudan with our own car.''It’s an epic road trip for anyone wanted to immerse themselves in African culture. If you want to be a bit different and slightly more adventurous you can always shoot for the West Africa route. That is''Morocco''to South Africa!''North Coast 500''The''North Coast 500''is a coastal route around the Scottish highlands. It’s just over 500 miles and passes through some of Scotland’s most epic scenery in areas largely undeveloped. The route traditionally starts in the Northeastern town of Inverness and from there you are taken into rolling hills, stunning lochs, and dramatic cliff faces of Western Scotland.''The route is rich in history, culture, and amazing landscapes.''Scotland holds a special place''in our hearts as the Scots are some of the friendliest people in the world, and with their new found nationalism they have embraced their culture, history, and excellent food products. Oh, and they have the''freedom to roam''!''We tackled this road trip in eight days and would go back in a heartbeat. Although we did it in eight days we recommend at least 10 to complete the road trip as you will want to pull off just about everywhere for a photo. Don’t believe me? Check out our video!''Iceland’s Ring Road''Iceland’s famous “''Ring Road''” takes you around the country on “Route 1.” The trip is almost 900 miles and is pretty self-explanatory as it does a large circle through the Nordic island nation.''Along the way, you’ll find glaciers,''black sand beaches'', a plethora of Icelandic moss, volcanoes, wet deserts, 10,000 waterfalls, geothermal pools, and so much more. We did the route in 12 days, but it can be done in five if you drive like the devil or you could take longer (although that will get expensive in Iceland). You can check out our''Ring Road itinerary.''If you’re looking for a truly awesome experience check out renting a campervan around Iceland. We choose''Happy Campers''. We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''”''Blue Ridge Parkway''Head to Cameron’s home state of North Carolina to drive on one of the best roads in the world. The US Blue Ridge Parkway is 469 miles of pure nature connecting the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in North Carolina to the Shenandoah National Park in Virginia.''It’s widely considered one of the most beautiful drives in the US. The road winds along the Blue Ridge Mountains and provides visitor lovely vistas of the forested mountains along the way you have plenty of opportunities for a picnic, hike, or even a dip in a refreshing mountain waterfall. It’s tough to find the wild on the East Coast these days, but the parkway is the perfect escape from city life.''We recently took on half of the Blue Ridge Parkway on our''romantic getaway trip to Asheville''and fell in love with the Appalachian mountains. If you want to see a beautiful city while on the drive make sure to check out Asheville! It’s full of hip coffee shops, art galleries, breweries, and the Vanderbilt Mansion.''Pan American Highway''This has always been a dream of ours and it’s the longest on this list.\xa0The 30,000-mile network of roads links almost all of the countries of the\xa0Americas\xa0with a Pacific coast in one route. The network of roads stretches from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, to Ushuaia, Argentina.''The variation of landscapes is drastic as it passes all major climate zones from arctic tundra, boreal forest, mountains, prairies, arid deserts and tropical jungles. It’s tough to even describe what this journey will hold in store as there is just so much!''It’s a daunting task that only handful of people have completed. We hope to join that roster one day! After our African road trip, I think we now have the confidence to tackle the massive journey.''From the Arctic to jungles and rainforests this road trip really is the mother of all road trips.''Fraser Island''Just off the southeastern coast of Queensland, Australia is Fraser Island.\xa0 The island is a World Heritage Site itself is 120 kilometers long and 24 wide. Fraser Island is actually considered the largest sand island in the world which makes it the perfect place for a four-wheel drive road trip!''The only way you can enter by vehicle is from a ferry on River Heads or Rainbow Beach. Once on the island, you can have your side of''adventure''any way you would like.''Camping, driving through the rainforests and eucalyptus woodland, climbing sand dunes or taking a dip. It’s all epic and a great addition to any coastal''Australian''road trip.''Auckland to Queenstown''This was the first road trip Tasha ever did solo. As a solo female New Zealand is a fantastic introduction to travel as it’s safe and easy to travel. The whole route from Auckland to Queenstown can be done in two weeks, although having more time never hurts.''The drive is fantastic, but the South Island is where the scenery becomes surreal and breathtaking. Along the road trip, you’ll see things like beautiful''Mount Cook National Park'', Rotorua, and\xa0Lake Wanaka.''It’s a pretty easy road trip as well as the roads are well paved and well signed, although some of the cliffside roads can be dangerous. New Zealand is a great country to road trip in if it’s your first time on an international trip!''The Garden Route''The Garden Route is probably the largest attraction in''South Africa''and for good reason. The natural beauty along the route is mind-boggling and it covers a wide range of topography, vegetation, outdoor adventures, and even African wildlife.''The Garden Route is a 300km stretch of''coastal road in South Africa''.\xa0The route extends from Mossel Bay to Storms River and takes riders along the Western and Eastern Cape. We guarantee you will be blown away by the smallest floral kingdom in the world,''Fynbos'', and the gorgeous coastal areas you pass through.''Our highlights included eating oysters in Knysna,''bungee jumping from the Bloukrans Bridge,''and a safari at''Gondwana Game Reserve''. There are so many options and adventures in South Africa plan for at least two weeks to do this route and to have a little rest in''Stellenbosch''or Cape Town after.''We partnered with''Happy Campers Campervans''in Iceland and had a fantastic time. They’ve had such success they’ve now expanded to South Africa meaning you can take one of their campers along the route. (''use this link''and the code “TWP5”!)''The Coastal Causeway''The Coastal Causeway route is one of the''best things to do in Northern Ireland.''We just embarked on this adventure and discovered that you can do the whole thing in one long day. However, we recommend not to rush yourself and spend at least a few days exploring. The route takes you along the\xa0dramatic coastline from Derry~Londonderry to Belfast.''It features some of the best natural landscapes of''all of Ireland''including Giants Causeway,\xa0Cushendun Caves, and The Gobbins. There are also a few castle and distillers as well. This route is especially perfect for any Game of Thrones fan as much of the show was filmed in Northern Ireland along this route.''Amalfi Coast''If there is one country we could always return to it’s''Italy''. The country itself is easy to travel through with friendly locals, delicious food, great wine, loads of history, amazing landscapes, gorgeous beaches, and a\xa0romanticized countryside.''While there are plenty of''amazing itineraries through Italy''we’re heading to Southern Italy for our shortest road trip on this list. The road along the Amalfi coast is only 50 miles, but it is one of the most stunning roads we’ve ever seen.''It’s most famous and beautiful towns are\xa0Amalfi, Positano, and Ravello. The road trip can be done in one day in your own car or on a local bus. However, we recommend at least three days to explore the coast while staying in one of the posh coastal towns frequented by celebrities.''Namibia''We have to add Namibia to the list. While we personally included the Cape to Cairo route, Namibia is not technically a part of the journey. Namibia is located in the southwest of Africa and dominated by massive deserts. It features two major deserts, the Namib desert is the world’s oldest and features the tallest sand dunes.''Travel in Namibia''is surreal. There is so much to see in the country we spent a full month traveling around on our road trip. Multiple time we had to pinch ourselves to make sure it wasn’t a dream.''A road trip in Namibia''has no given name, it’s just a Namibia road trip.''Long, deserted, and desert roads await you here. You may even find yourself straddled between the ocean and desert on the Skeleton Coast or driving by the world’s largest sand dunes.''We ventured to Namibia''right after South Africa and found the country easy to travel, affordable, and great for campers.''Oh, the countries population is just over two million so you can go for hours without seeing a single person on the road. This also requires you practice good safety skills and you’re self-sufficient. Always carry water!''Plan Your Epic Road Trip!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''You’ll most likely''want a camera to document your road trip. Check out our''favorite travel cameras!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance with your water while traveling then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go''reusable water bottle.''Check out''our''favorite travel gear''so you can get ideas on what to pack for your adventure!''Read Next:''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''Here’s Why You Shouldn’t Be Afraid to Travel Africa''Best Travel Laptops and Convertibles: Don’t Buy The Wrong Computer!''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''April 17, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''April 12, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''March 5, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Natasha''Finding the best carry-on backpack for your next trip is crucial. After three years of full-time travel, we’ve tested a lot of different carry on backpacks.\xa0I’ve traveled with a backpack on countless flights, buses, metro systems, trains, and taxis. In that time I’ve found that perfect backpack is invaluable.''These backpacks best serve travelers who do not want to waste the time or money of checking a bag. The right carry on backpack means you can breeze through TSA, board your flight, and hit the next destination with ease.\xa0Nothing can make a trip more laborious than arriving at the airport unprepared or having the wrong baggage.\xa0These carry on specific backpacks are designed for the modern day traveler. We love that many of packs on this list feature front-loading designs. With a front loader, you can easily sort your luggage and it makes packing and unpacking a breeze''However, there are loads of different airline approved backpacks out there, but which do you go with? In this post, I share what to look for in a great bag and reveal the best bags currently on the market.''Best Carry on Backpack Picks''The decision is not easy, but I’ve compiled the list below for you to quickly jump to a pack that catches your eye. Or read on to help make your decision about what piece of luggage to use on your next trip.''Osprey Farpoint 40L''(''Check Price'')''Cabin Max Metz BackPack''(''Check Price'')''eBags TLS Mother Lode''(''Check Price'')''Kelty Redwing Backpack 40L & 32L''(''Check Price'')''Timbuk2 Uptown Travel Backpack''(''Check Price'')''Osprey Daylite''(''Check Price'')''DJI Phantom 3 HardShell Backpack''(''Check Price'')''DJI Phantom 3 Backpack by Koozam''(''Check Price'')''Tortuga Setout Backpack''(''Check Price'')''Best Carry On Backpacks''Osprey Farpoint 40L''I’ve talked about the''Farpoint 55L''before on this''best travel backpacks post''; however, the 55L is too big to be carry-on approved. In comes, the 40 liters sized version of the bag.''It’s probably one of the best travel bags out there. Extremely versatile and fully capable of being carried around on a back in length. The side handle of the bag is an added bonus, making it easy to grab out of an overhead bin and carry it off of a plane. Osprey is one of my favorite backpack companies because of their''All Mighty Guarantee''.''Check the prices here!''Cabin Max Metz Backpack''This pack comes in at 44 liters and is designed for European travel. The pack was specifically designed to adhere to European carry-on baggage requirements.This means it is slightly too big for the American market, but you’ll likely have no problems carrying the bag on U.S. flights since it is not a hard bag. It’s a cheap bag that is well reviewed and surprisingly well constructed.''The bag is designed similar to a traditional suitcase, which is its greatest strength and weakness. My only complaint is that it is a hideously designed bag, but it does sell for less than $50. If you care about style or fashion, don’t bother with this carry on backpack.''Check the prices here!''eBag TLS Mother Lode''This bag is described as spacious with plenty of organization to boot. It’s an easy contention for one of the best carry-on bags around if not for its comfortability. However, as I talked about previously there is no one solution fits all to finding a bag.''This bag is tremendous for those looking to have a great bag to carry on the plane and then onto their hotel. I wouldn’t plan on spending a few hours with the pack on because it may become uncomfortable.''Check the prices here!''Kelty Redwing Backpack''This is the pack for those on the go or the more adventurous we would say. If you plan to hop off the plane and then go for a hike this is likely the bag for you.''Kelty along with my favorite bag brand Osprey build packs that are meant to last and hold up the elements. So, the price tag on this bag is about double that of the previous two bags. However, it comes with quality, comfort, and a good warranty.''Check the prices here!''Timbuk2 Uptown Travel Backpack''We don’t always want a utilitarian bag. However, this bag is super stylish and we love its features like dedicated laptop sleeve. It’s a full package as I like the style, organization, comfort, and size of this bag. That dedicated laptop sleeve also unfolds from the backpack for quick access in the TSA security line.''However, if you decide to go this route there are a plethora of stylish bags to choose from.\xa0Granted these bags tend to be less practical with less organization and nonwaterproof exterior.''Check the prices here!''Osprey DayLite''This backpack rocks. It’s slim, lightweight, durable, and it’s designed to clip on to a\xa0full-size pack. With two mesh pockets for water bottles and an inner pouch for a water bladder, it’s also easy to stay hydrated with this pack. That photo earlier with me and this bag hiking through Turkey\xa0are why I love this bag.''It carries weight, like most ospreys, really well. Even though the straps are slim I regularly carry six-eight kgs in it all day never notice the weight on my back. It’s smaller than most of the bags on this list, but if you’re looking for a great carry-on bag that can double as a daypack this is the one for you. If you’re wondering I can fit my 13″ Mac Air inside too.''Check the prices here!''Helly Hansen Duffel 2''If you’re looking for the best value on this list of''duffels bags for travel''then the Helly Hansen is for you.\xa0 The''Helly Hansen Duffel 2''is easily my favorite bag on the market and the one I currently carry. The sleek design and 30L size means it can easily fit in most overhead compartments.''It’s an easy to pack bag and should be able to handle a few short trips. The Helly Hansen is waterproof and looks sharp. However, it’s slightly heavy and could definitely be constructed just a tad bit better. It’s not the toughest or best-constructed duffel bag, but you do get a lot of bag for not much money.''Check the prices here!''Burton Day Hiker''I love multi-functional products so the Burton Day Hiker is a slam dunk for me. We’re big into snowboarding so I needed a pack to wear while on the slopes, but I can’t carry a dedicated bag while traveling. The Day Hiker serves as a bag perfect for the slopes with a carrying strap for a snowboard, but it also has features like a laptop sleeve, multiple pockets, a roomy interior, and water bottle holders.\xa0It was designed by Burton to serve as a slopes to street backpack that way you can use the pack year round.''Check the prices here!''DJI Phantom 3 Hardshell Backpack''When it comes to carrying a drone on a plane you want it to be as compact\xa0as possible while offering full protection. Specifically, I was seeking a case that properly carried the LiPo batteries.''You also, don’t want to be lugging around a pelican case as a traveler. I found numerous backpacks\xa0in which the accessories were simply stored together as one, meaning your LiPo batteries were left floating around the bag loose. Bad idea on a plane. Or you could make the switch to the DJI Mavic Pro!''Check the prices here!''Tortuga Setout Travel Backpack''This is the bag I am currently carrying.''It’s been one of my favorite bags I’ve ever carried and it’s been wonderful with our snowboard season as dealing with a snowboard bag is already a pain in the butt. The bag is about 40 liters in size with a front loading compartment and several compartments. The compartments are well thought out with room for my socks, toiletries, electronics, and essentials.\xa0The bags highlights for me include a padded laptop sleeve, detachable straps if you decide to check the bag, and convenient side handle. To only sweeten the deal it’s one of the best looking backpacks on this list.''Check the prices here!''Features in a Carry-on Backpack''There are five things to consider when purchasing a new backpack. That is size, comfort, value, organization, and capacity. Size in regards to the exterior size of the bag, which is number one when it comes to adhering to airline carry-on luggage rules. Comfort because you’re going to be wearing this bag, so if you have any plans to be walking around comfort is crucial.''It’s no secret that everyone loves a good value, but with certain items, it pays off to go to the top of the line items. It all really comes down to the intended use and your budget. The organization, by this I mean pockets and compartments. Does it have 30? Or does it have one? Both numbers are a bit exaggerated but can be crucial depending on your travel style and what you plan to carry on the plane, like a drone and electronics.''Size''When it comes to selecting your bag this is rule numero uno. Selecting a bag that adheres to size regulations for carry-on backpacks is all that matters, otherwise, you’re checking your bag. Game Over. The size of your bag goes beyond adhering to airline regulations. You should consider whether the backpack\xa0will slide under the seat in front of you, or whether the bag will fit comfortably on your back.''Comfort''Do you plan to carry your bag around the city or even hike with it? Then you’re going to want a bag that is well designed and fits on your back. I knew a comfortable backpack\xa0was crucial for me. However, these bags tend to come with a higher price tag. If your travel plans are more in the realm of off the plane and straight to the hotel then a cheaper bag with less comfort may be ideal for you. Leaves more money for a splashier hotel room too. For example, a camel ride requires a lot\xa0of added\xa0comfort.''Value''Comfort value is all up to the intended use. How long does this pack need to last? Does comfort matter? Are you going to beat it to death? What are you going to pack for it? Is your boss or a client going to see you carrying this bag? Or does it just need to make it from point A to point B? A cheaper bag typically means fewer features and less durability. While the higher end bags can break a budget; however, going with a well-constructed product is never a bad idea if you can afford.''Organization''As the list of must-have-items continues to grow so do the number of compartments in our backpacks. You should have in mind how you will stay\xa0organized with what you intend to carry in your backpack. We knew that a good backpack with sufficient organization to carry a drone, laptop, and camera was needed. It was difficult and ended up costing us more, but at the end of the day, we have everything we need from my carry-on backpack. Had I gone with just the other four points\xa0I would have been disappointed.''Capacity''The capacity of the bag refers to how much you can fit inside the bag. Size should be considered with how long the trip will or whether backpack is intended to compliment checked luggage.''What Type of Traveler Are You?''At the end of the day, the pack you choose is all about what type of traveler you are. Are you a minimalist? A Techie? Stylish? Are you planning to just use your carry-on to travel with for three days or three weeks? The biggest piece of advice is to remember what it is you want and search until you find it. I hope one of these carry-on backpacks points you in the right direction for your luggage needs.''Read Next:''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''10 Things to Know Before You Travel to Scotland''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Best Carry On Backpacks to Help You Pack Smart''was last modified:''April 24th, 2018''by''Cameron''The best travel towels may not be the most exciting thing in the world, but it is an important part of what we pack in our luggage. After years of travel around the world, we know the value of having the perfect compact travel towel. It has been a lot of trial and error to find our favorite towels. Of course, it should go without saying jamming your average plush cotton towel in your''backpack''or''suitcase''is not going to cut it.''You need a towel\xa0that is lightweight, quick dry, compact, and comfortable. We have three recommendations all constructed from different materials. Each material has its own qualities and will ensure that you get dry. A new mission for us is the promotion of environmentally friendly products for travel around the world. So, in addition to looking at the traditional qualities of a towel, we’re also considering the environmental impact of the towel.''Table Of Contents:''What Makes The Best Travel Towel?''Importance of Traveling Light''Best Travel Towels''Best Microfiber Towel – Youphoria Travel Towel''Natural Travel Towel – Linen Towel''Best Eco-Friendly Travel Towel – Bamboo''Premium Travel Towel – Nomadix''What Makes The Best Travel Towel?''We use our towel for all the expected/unexpected/crazy matter of things that occur during world travels. A good beach towel? Check. Want to take a swim while camping? Check. Hostel? Check. Protect your souvenirs? Check. Made a mess? Check. A good towel needs to have four major qualities to be well suited to travel.''Quick Dry''– You’re on the go and no one wants to stick something wet in their luggage when they’re on the way to catch a flight.''Comfortable''– This should go without saying, but if it doesn’t feel good against the skin then what’s the point?''Anti-microbial''– It’s going to be living in your luggage a lot of the time so it needs to be active in fighting odor.''Portable''– Most importantly to be one of the best travel towels the towel needs to be packable and able to travel.''Importance of Traveling Light''Almost\xa0everyone is looking to have lighter bags these days because traveling with suitcases and full wardrobes worth of clothing is old school.''As international travel continues to grow its time travel products change with them. light synthetic towels are built to keep up with the modern day traveler and can make their way into any traveler’s style. We always travel with three staple items they are a solid travel towel,''a travel camera'', and a''packable down jacket''.''Best Travel Towels''Best Microfiber Towel – Youphoria Travel Towel''This is a great multi-purpose towel, but it’s equally as useful at the gym or yoga studio as it is traveling. The best microfiber towel we found is a synthetic blend. The towel is absorbent and fights bacteria so it always smells fresh. I’ve placed this towel at the top because it is the towel we’re''carrying in our luggage''.''The towel comes in three sizes:''20×40, 28×56, and 32×72.''We recommend the largest towel otherwise it is difficult to wrap around the body. Produced from microfiber which means, it is soft, absorbent, and dries quickly. This is the best microfiber towel.''Microfiber has the ability to absorb up to four times its weight in water and can easily be wrung out.\xa0This makes for a great travel towel to pack for your next trip. There is one thing that we hate, though – it’s made from petroleum and it is essentially plastic.''Yes, the evil plastic that takes thousands of years to go away and is wreaking havoc on our oceans. There is the argument; however, that a\xa0synthetic towel is longer lasting, takes less washing, and creates\xa0no agricultural waste when\xa0compared to\xa0cotton.''Purchase Travel Towel Here''Best Natural Travel Towel – Linen''A''100% linen towel''may not be the first thing you think of, but it checks off all the boxes and then some. This option is not as cost effective as the best microfiber towel, but it is definitely more environmentally friendly. It also looks great and unlike some generic colored microfiber towel.''In our experience linen is actually more effective at soaking water up then microfiber. With the added advantage of not giving off a\xa0synthetic smell when wet.\xa0One of the strongest qualities of the linen is its\xa0ability to dry. It is a natural fiber, yet it dries as fast as polyester.''Linen claims to be antibacterial as well, but that''could be up for debate.''However, that is not where the strength of the towel lies. For us, a linen towel is a winner because it is environmentally friendly and has a great look.''Purchase Travel Towel Here''Best Eco Travel Towel – Bamboo''It shouldn’t be too much of a surprise to find a bamboo towel here. Bamboo is pretty much a super plant with the ability to produce all sorts of great products from it and has a small\xa0environmental footprint to grow.''The towel''is not quite as purpose built as the two previous towels for travel, but it is still a fantastic towel to travel with. It also carries many of the same great attributes you’re seeking when traveling or backpacking around the world.''A bamboo towel is lightweight at only 350 grams. It’s super soft and feels the best out of our three recommended travel towels. Effective at drying being able to absorb up to three times its weight in water. Bamboo is also antibacterial, antifungal, and odor resistant. Due to a natural property of bamboo textiles called “''bamboo kun'',”\xa0seriously, it’s a real thing.''The only downside to the bamboo is that it is not as quick drying as the other two towels above. It is the largest of the three recommended towels. However, it’s our personal favorite due to its price, eco footprint, and feel.''Purchase Travel Towel Here''Nomadix All-Purpose Towel Double Sided''The more adventures we take the more we have come to care about the importance of quality. This travel towel is by no means cheap as it retails for nearly $55! However, it is by far the highest quality travel towel on the market. It’s designed to be used for yoga and best of all its made entirely from recycled plastic bottles. Bonus points!''It’s the most stylish towel and with its size makes for a great beach towel. We’ve used it at the beach and it manages to keep sand from sticking and dries off your skin perfectly.''Purchase Travel Towel Here''Our Best Travel Towel Round-Up''Thanks for reading our roundup of the best ways to get dry while on the road. No matter what option you pick out of these three you’re certain to be satisfied.''Our personal favorites for the best travel towels are the eco-friendly towels of course! If you’re looking for more of our\xa0travel recommendations on great products for world travel click on one of the links below.''You may also like:''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''40 Road Trip Essentials You Need to Have in Your Car''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''Best Travel Laptops and Convertibles to Work on the Road''Eco Friendly Products to Take on Your Travels''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World in 2018''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''There are few cities in Europe that feel as forward thinking as Helsinki. The Finns have pushed into the modern era and embraced design, food, and art. No place is this more evident than in Finland’s capital. It’s a marvelous city that delighted us with plenty of things to do in Helsinki.''For such a modern city you never seem to be too far away from nature – the city features a marvelous amount of green space and it’s spread out across a series of islands in the Baltic Sea. Then you add the cities delicious restaurants and Finn’s clear affinity for having a good time. They even have a word in Finnish, “kalsarikannit,” a word to describe sitting at home in your underwear drinking with no intention of going out.''Helsinki is a wonderful city to explore full of things to do and delicious food to eat. We spent a week here around Christmas time and could not have had a better time exploring a city. Helsinki may not be your typical European city destination, but it is well worth a special trip to Finland for. If you’re wondering what to do in Helsinki we have you covered.''Check out our time on YouTube!''What to do in Helsinki''Get inspired''Whether you’re into design, modern art, photography, natural history, or classical art there is no shortage of museums and exhibitions in Helsinki. Visiting the many museums makes for the perfect thing to do in Helsinki in the winter.''At the''Helsinki Art Museum''(HAM) you can find a rotation of exhibitions in a modern building.\xa0 While at the''Ateneum Art Museum,''the grand building next to the train station, you will find classical art pieces including one of the most famous in Finland,''The Fighting Capercaillies.''We also ventured into the''Kiasma,''a contemporary art museum with interactive art.''Finland feels very much about the new and the clear love of design can be found throughout Helsinki. In fact, Helsinki has been declared a''UNESCO City of Design''. So, any visitor to the city must explore some of the cities architecture. Personally, one of our favorite building designs would be the Kaisa House.''The Kaisa House''is the library of Helsinki University. It’s a cool stop to relax, have a coffee, read a book, and explore the innovative architectural design. If this all sounds great to you, head to the''design district''! In this neighborhood, many of the design firms are located amongst a plethora of restaurants, stores, hip hotels, and museums.''Sample Finnish cuisine''Helsinki has a thriving food scene with hundreds of restaurants to tantalize the taste buds. You can find cafes, traditional haunts, and even a few Michelin star restaurants in the city. It all follows the trend in Nordic countries moving towards fresh and locally produced food with close ties to the surrounding environment.\xa0There are over 1200 restaurants in Helsinki and they account for about 4% of Finland’s GDP! You will have no trouble finding a good restaurant and need to spend at least one night to delve into the food scene.''If you’re interested in some classic foods try Hernekeitto, herring, lingonberry pie, reindeer, moose, ruisleipä, and mämmi.\xa0A few of our favorite eats were at''Savotta'', where we found traditional Finnish food in a charming and cozy interior where the servers are dressed in olf Finnish logging wear. We also sampled Finland’s modern-day food scene at''The Holiday'', a contemporary\xa0neighborhood restaurant on Katajanokka island, and''Juuri''in the design district.''Side note: Finland isn’t the most affordable country to eat out in the world. If you prefer to eat in we found Lidl’s in Helsinki which is easily some of the cheapest grocery stores in Europe''Take a day trip to Tallinn''A few years ago we visited both Riga, Latvia, and''Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania'', but we missed Estonia. It was a city we’ve heard a lot of nice things about so we were ecstatic to find out that the Tallinn is only a two-hour ferry ride away from Helsinki! We woke up at 5 am one morning and made our\xa0way to the Helsinki harbor to head over to Tallinn for the day. It was the perfect day trip from Helsinki and a great opportunity to explore a new city.''It’s only 70 miles south of Helsinki and has one of the most well preserved old towns in Europe. Cobbled streets and medieval houses make up this historical district but, that doesn’t mean that Tallinn is stuck behind the times! Estonia has a bustling technology sector home to thousands of startups and e-businesses. It brings a young hip vibe to residential neighborhoods with breweries, coffee shops, art galleries, and restaurants.''There are many sights to see in Tallinn and to really make the most out of a trip we recommend at least two days. However, we were able to have a fun time with only a day. You can head to the lively Christmas market with folk dancers if it is winter season, eat your way around the Medieval old town, check out the beautiful\xa0Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, walk the city walls, ice skate, and more! The city center very compact and easy to walk around. If you’re there for more than a day consider getting the''Tallinn Card''to save money on all the attractions.''I know that Tallinn really isn’t a “thing to do in Helsinki,” but I just had to include it here as we had such a fantastic day trip from Finland’s capital.''Have five cups of coffee a day''It’s not coffee addicts like the''Italians''or Turks that consume the most coffee in the word. Oh no, that''title would\xa0belong\xa0to the Finns.''On average they consume 12 kg of coffee per person a year or about five cups of coffee a day for the adults.''We’re coffee fiends so we set out to enjoy a few cups of coffee ourselves and explore the burgeoning café scene. It seemed as if there was at least one café to pop into every block, which made another great retreat from the cold. A few of our favorites were Café Regatta, a small café in\xa0Töölö that is every bit as charming as it looks.''Café Regatta doesn’t serve up specialty coffee like cappuccinos or espressos so this is good for filtered coffee or hot chocolate. Our favorite spot in the center of the city would have to be at the beautiful Kappeli. Try to stake out a window seat!''Another must is Cafe Ekberg, it is the oldest cafe in Helsinki. They’re well known for their tantalizing pastries and creating classics such as the “Alexander” cake.''Enjoy the Christmas cheer''We visited Helsinki right before Christmas, which felt like the perfect time to head to Finland. When the season comes Christmas cheer is abundant in Finland’s capital city. Several of our days in Helsinki were marked with snowfall and the city glistened with Christmas lights. The Christmas lights shine in every corner of Helsinki, there is a public ice rink next to the Central station, and soft Christmas music can be heard all around.''Senate Square is home to Helsinki’s Christmas market and it all sits right below the Helsinki Cathedral. Almost every night of the week you will find over 100 shops here selling anything from baked goods, Finnish meats, to Christmas scarfs and mittens. Then, of course, there is glögi (Finnish mulled wine), that can be had with or without alcohol.''We found Santa Claus a few times paying a visit to the Christmas markets and there is the iconic carousel that is free for children to enjoy. We didn’t find the Helsinki Christmas market to be the most lively European Christmas market we have ever visited, but definitely found it charming, cheerful, and a great thing to do in Helsinki in December.''Head to the Winter Garden''The''Helsinki Winter Garden''is a botanical garden at the bottom of Central Park that visitors and locals alike can come to enjoy exotic plants and beautiful gardens. Although they are called “Winter Gardens” they are actually open year round for people to enjoy.''However, during the winter you’ll find lovely Christmas decorations and that winter cheer in the air. The winter garden is free for visitors to enjoy, but check their website as opening hours vary.\xa0It’s the perfect spot to spend an hour relaxing, bring a book!''Get lost in nature''Few capital cities have a refuge from the city life. This is not the case in Helsinki where you can easily escape to their Central Park for a day. The park runs south to north for almost 10 kilometers covering thousands of hectares. Throughout the park, you can take part in outdoor sports, jog, enjoy the gardens, and search for wildlife.''The park plays home to various species including the muskrat, raccoon dog, brown and arctic hare, the elk, and the fox. Bird lovers can also enjoy a day here looking for the Eurasian jay and garden warbler, among various others. We know how hard it is to get in your precious nature time while in a city from our''New York days,''and highly recommend checking out the park at least once no matter the season.''Learn about the Moomins''The Moomins''are celebrated and loved characters created by''Tove Jansson'', one of the most famous Finnish artists of all time. They are cartoon creatures resembling that of a cute hippo family. I’d say they are probably comparable to''Winnie the Pooh''or the''Peanuts characters''in the United States, but maybe even bigger among the Finnish. Everyone knows and loves the Moomins, and you can get involved with that love too even as a guest.''For the time being, a Tove Johnsson exhibition stands in the HAM that is fun and interactive. There are also four Moomin cafes around the city as well as two Moomin shops. If you’re lucky you may even spot a few Moomins roaming around the streets of Helsinki.''Head to Helsinki’s oldest swimming pool''Yrjönkatu Swimming Hall''was built in 1928 and is now the oldest public swimming pool in Finland. It’s located in the center of the city and locals and visitors head there every day to relax in the saunas and go for a swim. The architecture and design here was world class at the time it was built, and the interior still stands timelessly over the decades.''Heading here is a fantastic place to experience Finnish sauna culture. Cameron and I both knew we had to experience Yrjönkatu – the kick is we had to go on separate days as most people swim naked (you must sauna naked). Men can head to the pool\xa0on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday while women can enjoy the pool on Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday. There is a whole set of rules to Finnish Sauna culture, but we’ll leave that for its own post.''The pool has three separate saunas – infrared, steam, and a traditional wooden sauna. Afterwards, you can enjoy yourself on the top floor with a beer and food as the pool is serviced by Cafe Yrjö. If you don’t feel comfortable swimming naked you’ll need to bring your own swimsuit or rent one. The staff will provide you with a towel, bathrobe, and sauna towel. If you want to shower afterward be sure to bring your own shower supplies as there are none here.''Dip into a sea pool''Another option for experiencing Finnish sauna culture in a unique environment is the''Allas Seal Pool.''This floating sea spa is located right on the Market Square and has a few outdoor swimming pools, a sauna, and café.''One of those pools, is indeed, a sea pool. A pool where you can jump into water that is the same temperature as the Baltic Sea the complex overlooks! Note, that you don’t have to sauna naked here, but most people do. They also have a coed sauna, when it’s not privately booked, where you wear bathing suits and can hang out with others in your party.''Have a night out on the town''Helsinki is not known for having the best weather, but that’s probably not what you came to Finland for anyway! Some days it can be cold and rainy – especially in the summer. So what do you do when it’s cold and rainy outside?''Snuggle.''Party''We were able to enjoy the weekend in Helsinki and loved the nightlife scene. The Finns know how to have a good time (in a classy way of course). There is no shortage of trendy bars and clubs in Finland’s capital. Some of the best bars in the city are Ateljee Bar, located on a hotel rooftop and Steam Helsinki, which serves of delicious gin concoctions in a steampunk set.\xa0 We are not big on clubbing but according to''The Guardian,''Kaiki Club has been voted one of the 25 best clubs in all of Europe!''Side note: Like the rest of the Nordic countries, Finland is not exactly a cheap destination. Alcohol prices are high so if you are on a budget you may want to consider bringing in your own booze and have a few drinks at your hotel or before going to the bars.''Enjoy a day at the zoo''After our year across Africa'', we have a hard time stepping into zoos. However, we know that not everyone can head into the wild and enjoy the many beautiful animals that populate our earth and most zoos do great things for animal conservation and funding. Helsinki Zoo is a 30-minute bus ride from the city center is perfect for families that want to see some Arctic animals like the lynx, wolverine, and reindeer. The Helsinki Zoo also houses Coco, the oldest sloth in the entire world!''The zoo dates back to 1889 and is located on its own island. Meaning you can visit one of the oldest zoos in the world right in Helsinki. You won’t find any elephants, giraffe, or zebra here as the zoo strives to only have animals that can adapt to the climates of Finland.''Visit a fortress!''Off the coast of Helsinki lies a cluster of islands.''UNESCO World Heritage Suomenlinna''is one of those islands that are easily accessible from the city. Suomenlinna is a fortress built in the 18''th''century when Finland was still part of Sweden. It’s an interesting sight to see when visiting Finland.''To get here you must take a ferry or waterbus and it takes about 20 minutes from Market Square. Once here you can explore by yourself or hop on a guided tout. There are also plenty of restaurants, cafes, and museums to duck into while visiting the fortress of Suomenlinna.''Things to know about visiting Helsinki''We really enjoyed living in the city like a local and got to stay in our own studio apartment,''Aallonkoti.''The apartment was extremely comfortable, spacious, and had a full kitchen with a washer and dryer. Bonus!''Helsinki’s public transportation is amazing! You can get just about anywhere on the buses, trams, and trains. You can also get to Estonia, Russia, and Sweden via ferry.''We found the Finns to be very stylish in their capital city, especially around dinner time. Pack accordingly if you want to blend in. Remember to bring a warm jacket,''winter hat'', and''gloves in the winter''. Good''snow boots''wouldn’t hurt either!''As mentioned, the Finns love their sauna (pronounced SOW-Nah).''They are actually the ones who invented the concept of sauna over 2000 years ago!''You should definitely experience one while you’re in Finland. Oh yea, and no one, and I mean no one cares that you are naked. Just make sure to always sit on a towel or sheet in a public sauna. No one really wants to sit where the other persons bare bum just was. Most saunas will provide a sheet for you. If you’re still lost''check out these beginner tips.''The Finns are known for being very quiet people. Which I actually enjoyed the quietness when sitting on the bus, tram, ferry, or in a cafe. That’s not to say that that you can’t easily start a chat with a Finn though! We never were met with any hostility in Finland and just about everyone can speak English well.''Tipping''is not really a thing in Finland.''Quick Facts on Finland''‘Hello’ and ‘Thank You’ in Finnish'':''“Hei” and “Kiitos”''Capital'': Helsinki''Currency'': Euro – (''EUR'') – €''Visa:''Schengen visa''is 90 days in the European Union every 180 days. Many nationalities are granted this on arrival for free. Check with your embassy to see if that is you.''What to Pack:''It all depends on the season, but always have something warm to wear as summer nights can still be cold. We always throw a''packable down jacket''in our bags when we travel this far North.''Good to know:''About\xa0270,000 people in\xa0mainland Finland are Swedish speaking.''Read Next:''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''The Perfect Europe Packing List • Don’t Forget This Stuff!''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''What to do in Helsinki • 13 Things to do in Finland’s Capital''was last modified:''April 15th, 2018''by''Natasha''What’s the best daypack for travel? While we’ve already dived into the''best carry on backpacks'', those are more designed for people looking to pack it all in one bag. One is your main piece of luggage – a suitcase, duffel bag, or backpack and the other your daypack.''It feels like we always need a daypack when hopping around cities, hiking in the woods, or snowboarding in some glades. Even in a city, an urban daypack is great for carrying a''camera'',''laptop'', map, headphones, or your''favorite water bottle''.''It’s pretty easy to neglect the daypack, but in reality, it’s an item you should\xa0take the time to get right.\xa0 After all, your favorite''travel backpack''or luggage will only be with you when you change locations, but a daypack can spend the whole day on your back when you’re exploring a new city or''deep in the jungle''.''Best Daypack For Travel''Stylish Daypacks''These are our favorite daypacks for navigating the urban streets. These packs won’t make you stand out like a sore thumb. I also find them more\xa0comfortable than their outdoor counterparts since they’re designed to be thrown over the shoulder while on the go. The key detail of these packs is their sleek design and stylish features. The modern-day traveler is looking to conquer pavement and airports, not mountains and hiking trails.''Saddleback Leather Front Pocket Backpack''Saddleback Leather makes some of the best quality backpacks – hands down. Their leather backpacks are the best daypacks on the market and we don’t travel anywhere without them. They aren’t cheap by any means, but they are quality. Saddleback Leather ensures their products with a''100-year warranty.''They only use sturdy materials on their bags including full grain leather, pigskin lining, and marine grade polyester thread. The lower back section is padded with Neoprene and the shoulder straps are completely adjustable. No, this bag won’t hold all of your luggage but is perfect for an overnight bag or as a carry-on addition to your main luggage. We also choose this bag as our go to for''safari bags''!''Check the prices here!''Jansport Hatchet Backpack''I love the design of''this urban daypack.''It draws\xa0from influences of\xa0outdoor gear and managed to make a stylish backpack that looks great in a\xa0modern environment. The pack features one main compartment with a series of sleeves perfect for organizing things''such as a travel laptop'', notepad, and headphones.''Check the prices here!''Burton Annex Daypack''It’s pretty hard not to love the looks of''this daypack.''The design and amount of space it the packs means it could even be used by minimalist travelers or those looking for a weekend escape. The roomy design and 28L of space means it can pack just about all you ever need in a daypack or backpack for that matter.''Check the prices here!''Patagonia Black Hole 25L''First things first, this pack is made by Patagonia which is one of my\xa0favorite brands! Patagonia makes great quality gear and garments. Two years on the road and I still have my Patagonia that shows little signs of wear. I continue to buy more of their products. Patagonia’s Black Hole is everything I have come to love about the company. It features a ripstop polyester that is a water-resistant TPU laminate which makes it waterproof and super tough.''The pack has a great look. An inner padded pocket is located on the inside to hold a laptop so it makes for a great bag in the city or out hiking in the woods. Another great feature is the daisy chain loops that allow for the attachment of things such as a skateboard, yoga mat, or climbing gear. This daypack is a slam dunk, but some might not like the laminate materials look. Also, it lacks compartments in the interior for the\xa0organization of your gear.''Check the prices here!''Herschel Classics Little America Backpack''You’ve definitely seen''this daypack before.''When we lived in NYC these bad boys were all over of the streets and Tasha carried a green one.''They have a classic look and it’s a simple backpack. No this isn’t a heavy duty travel daypack meant to tackle mountains, but with a great look and affordable price, we’ll take it.''Check the prices here!''Packable Daypacks''All of these packs are lightweight and can be stuffed into your main luggage. Packable daypacks are perfect for only traveling with one suitcase. No need to carry a backpack on the plane as it rides in your suitcase. We used an Eagle Creek packable daypack for the longest time and only ditched because''we lost it in Cape Town''.''Daypacks in this category are some of the cheapest options and can save you a buck if you’re not looking to commit to a standard travel backpack. These daypacks for travel are purpose designed. They make a great choice. However, don’t expect anything this light to last for years on end.''Eagle Creek Packable Daypack''This pack is simply made''from a fairly strong material and should be able to hold your daily essentials. It’s one of the cheapest options in this guide. If you plan on carrying a laptop, camera, or books this probably is not the daypack for you. The loose design means things sit oddly on your back if they weigh anything. We personally used this pack in conjunction with our other daypack for shopping at the market.''Check the prices here!''New Outlander Packable Daypack''This''packable daypack''has water bottle pockets which is a sweet feature the Eagle Creek does not have and it’s cheaper. The only problem is we know and trust Eagle Creek’s durable products. It also comes with multiple pockets, a feature lacking in the Eagle Creek version. This could mean it doesn’t pack as well and leaves it more susceptible to travel damage.''Check the prices here!''Outdoor Daypacks''If you’re looking for the best daypack then you can’t go wrong with the offerings from outdoor companies. They come with a\xa0higher price, but they make up for it with all their extra features. Outdoor packs are function over form, but the best of them still have some looks.''Osprey\xa0Daylite''This is one of my favorite daypacks! It’s one of my favorite travel purchases and has held up marvelously. That is to be expected as Osprey backpacks come with a lifetime guarantee.''The pack is sleek, feels great on your back, and can carry a fair amount of stuff. It’s not the biggest pack with only 13L of space. It’s also made by Osprey who make some of the''best large travel backpacks on the market''.''Check the prices here!''The North Face Jester Backpack''North Face is a well known outdoor brand and they make some great backpacks. The pack is comfortable and durable. The heavy duty design and vented back make it a clear winner for a''travel daypack.''Check the prices here!''Camelbak M.U.L.E. Hydration Backpack''This pack is tremendous for the outdoor enthusiast who loves day hikes or outdoor sports. It’s super slim so it won’t become a burden on the trails and features a hydration bladder.''That’s really what this pack is designed to do hug your back during activities. It has enough space to carry your gear, multiple compartments, and a helmet holder. If you’re big in mountain biking this pack was made for you.''Check the prices here!''Camera Daypack''I’m only going to mention one of these because camera packs could warrant their own post. However, for those who are serious about their photography, that means a lot of heavy valuable equipment.''Lowepro Flipside 300''These guys have been making camera equipment for decades and know what it takes to protect camera gear. They looked at what they need from a great photography daypack and built it. The pack has padded compartments designed to hold lens and cameras. It’s waterproof and has a sturdy design that is sure to protect your gear. \xa0This is also a great choice for those looking to travel with their photography gear.''Check the prices here!''What Makes A Great Daypack?''Comfort''Like with anything, make sure that the daypack you choose is comfortable on your back. You should be able to hike comfortably for at least two hours. When buying online it’s a good idea to check the return policy in case the backpack does not fit you the way you would like.''Style''There are two basic designs of daypacks. You have the performance or urban backpacks that tend to be sleek with a good design. The other option on offer is the outdoor pack. It serves the traveler well, but it looks goofy when hopping in and out of cabs and walking through the streets of a\xa0city.''Organization''How the bag stores your items when you travel is important, but it doesn’t mean a plethora of pockets. My favorite backpack has two interior pockets and it’s served me well for several years now.''Design''A good backpack doesn’t necessarily mean a bunch of bells and whistles. Make sure you narrow down if you want a top loading backpack or front loading, and check for any extra\xa0straps, harnesses, zippers, and clips you may or may not want and need. There is a whole range of daypacks that are designed to be rolled up and stored in a suitcase until you reach your destination. We love this feature!''Read Next:''Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''Best Carry On Backpacks to Help You Pack Smart''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''Is Cape Town the Most Photogenic City in the World?''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Best Daypacks For Travel Around The World in 2018''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Cameron''Before going to Africa it’s important to learn a little about the continent. One of the best ways to do that before is watch some movies about Africa! From the lions in the Serengeti to the some of the worst civil wars on the continent, here are my favorite movies about Africa to watch before going.''Movies About Africa''The Lion King''I grew up in the 90’s, and I can’t think of the animals in Africa without thinking of the Lion King. If you haven’t seen this movie yet, you need to stop reading right this second and get on Amazon, hop on Netflix, or go about your usual way of accessing movies and watch this tonight. I mean, cmon that opening scene? “NA SEE WANG YA” and Simba’s christening! I can’t even watch the first five minutes without a tear in my eye. This movie about Africa is forever loved and even though it’s animated, it shows the beauty of some of these countries.''Relive your Childhood!''Gorillas in the Mist''One of my favorite movies about Africa that is still very relevant today. Seeing the mountain gorillas in Rwanda and Uganda has been high on my list for years (''UPDATE: We checked that off this year''), but I never knew the full story behind these beautiful creatures. Meet Dian Fossey, an American primatologist that dedicated her life to studying the mountain gorillas in Rwanda. Gorillas in the Mist, starring the fabulous Sigourney Weaver is an 80’s movie that documents Dian’s struggles and achievements while in Africa.''Get it Here!''Beasts of No Nation''A Netflix original movie that garnered international recognition and scored many awards this past season. Beasts of No Nation takes place in an unnamed West African country and follows a young boy who loses his family to a brutal war. He is soon adopted as a child soldier into a rising rebel group. Although the film remains ambiguous about location, it portrays the horrors the military use of children has on young boys lives in Africa. To this day this is not only one of the best movies about Africa on Netflix, but one of the best movies on the whole platform.''Virunga''Another Netflix original, this documentary focuses on the conservation of the Virunga National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Or at least that’s how the documentary starts until the filmmakers and rangers find themselves embroiled in the middle of a civil war. The film showcases heart-stopping footage as conservationist work to protect the park, which is home to some of the''world’s last mountain gorillas.''Hotel Rwanda''Called the “African Schindler’s List” this film is an absolute must watch for just about anyone wanting to watch movies about Africa. It’s deeply saddening to remember that just 20 years ago there was a genocide happening in Rwanda, with the ethnic Tutsi being the victims of the Hutu militia, killing off 20% of the Rwandan population! This is the true story of Paul Rusesabagina, who saved more than a 1,000 refugees by hiding them in a hotel that he managed.''Get it on Amazon''!''The Constant Gardener''This was in my Netflix queue forever. Although, I love Ralph Fiennes, I never ever brought myself to watch it. I just recently sat myself down to watch this political thriller and LOVED it. Rachel Weisz and Ralph Fiennes are an unlikely couple that live and work in Kenya. Tessa (Weisz) is a diehard Amnesty activist who is uncovering big secrets in the pharmaceutical industry. What drew me more in was that this movie was loosely based off a true story in Nigeria.''Get it here''!''The English Patient''This romantic drama was nominated for 12 Academy Awards in 1996 and features young Ralph Fiennes at his prime. Did I mention I love Ralph Fiennes? Set during WWII, The English Patient tells the story of a widowed nurse caring for a severely burned patient. This injured man is known only as “The English Patient” for his distinct English Accent and has an interesting life story.''Check for Prices''!''The Good Lie''A feel good movie about a group of Sudanese siblings who escape the brutal Second Sudanese Civil War. These brothers win a lottery to relocated in the United States, and the film follows their integration into American culture and takes audiences on a rollercoaster ride of emotions.''Check Amazon for Prices''!''I Dreamed of Africa''This film certainly didn’t deserve any academy awards, but it did manage to get me excited about going to Africa. The film tells the true story of Kuki Gallman, an Italian woman who relocates to Africa to run a farm. It’s like Under the Tuscan Sun, but set in Africa. The film is adapted from Kuki’s autobiography, I Dreamed of Africa, and is heartbreaking at times and uplifting in others.''Get it on Amazon!''Half of a Yellow Sun''Half of the Yellow Sun is a Nigerian film that opens viewers eyes to some of the terrifying atrocities of the Nigerian Civil War. Interweaving two love stories, family betrayal, and an undiscovered mystery this film is based off the 2006 novel by African feminist, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.''Check Prices!''Casablanca''This is one of the many movies we watched in film school and it would be hard for me not to mention it on this “movies about Africa” list. Ranked as one of the greatest American films of all time, this 1942 romance takes place in Casablanca, one of the''largest cities in Morocco.''Rick and Ilsa are star-crossed lovers during the second world war.''Get it on Amazon''!''The First Grader''I can’t count the number of times I cried from sadness and joy in The First Grader. Telling the true story of Kimani Maruge, an 84-year-old Kenyan farmer that enrolled in elementary school in 2003, after the Kenyan government granted citizens free universal primary education. Today, Maruge still holds the Guinness World Record for the oldest pupil in primary school.''Find it on Amazon!''Madagascar''With so many serious films on this list, I had to throw this one in! Madagascar 1, 2, and 3 are some of the funniest animated films I have seen and feature some brilliant song and dance scenes ( I Like to Move it Move it). Madagascar tells the story of four zoo animals who escape Central Park and get stranded on the island of…Madagascar! With an all-star comedic cast, you will be laughing your way through this 90-minute film.''Click Here for the Complete Collection''Last King of Scotland''One of the more critically acclaimed films on this list, The Last King of Scotland is an intense thriller set in 1970’s Uganda. Forrest Whitaker gives a stellar performance as Idi Amin, the third Ugandan president, who was heavily criticized for human rights abuse. The film shows Amin’s harsh ruling from the eyes of his personal physician.''Check Prices''!''Blood Diamond''Sierra Leone went through an atrocious civil war less than 20 years ago. This film, featuring my boy Leo, follows one local fisherman’s gut-wrenching hardship during the conflict. Blood Diamond mostly focuses on just that, a “blood diamond.” Blood diamonds are the harvesting and mining of diamonds in war zones, sold to finance warlords activities. They are still very much an issue in the world. Shame on me, for I knew nothing about blood diamonds or the consequences of buying one before seeing this film and reading another favorite, A Long Way Gone, in 2007. Sadly, even after the Kimberly Process, it is damn near impossible to certify a diamond as conflict free. The only way to ensure you are an ethical and ecological consumer is to purchase a synthetic stone.''Find Leo Here!''District 9''An Alien species lands in Johannesburg and must remain there until they can fix their UFO. The “prawns” are then subjected to living in terrible conditions and face daily discrimination. Now this may just seem like your typical Alien film, but District 9 actually holds a much deeper meaning than a bunch of invasive “Prawns.”''Going back to apartheid era in South Africa'', this film sheds a tiny bit of light on the issues in SA while still provided amazing entertainment.''Buy it here.''Out of Africa''Oh Merryl Streep and Robert Redford, you both aged so well. Out of Africa is a film set in colonial Africa and garnered seven Academy Awards including Best Picture. The film follows the life of Karen Blixen, who establishes a coffee plantation in Africa. This a one of the movies on this list that portrays parts of an African safari and is based off of an autobiographical book of the same name shows Karen’s complicated life in Kenya, with a side twist of a young love affair with Robbie Red.''Check for it here''!''Queen of Katwe''Chess is the escape from poverty for a young Ugandan woman living in Kampala. This movie is based on true events in Africa and tells of a girl defying the odds and her story of becoming a top chess champion. This is a must watch movie about Africa before''heading to Uganda!''The Gods Must be Crazy''The Gods Must be Crazy is the top South African film of all time. Although the story is set in Botswana, this movie tells the tale of a rural village with little knowledge of the outside world. One day a glass bottle of coke falls from the sky, and the villagers take it as a sign from god. Only a comedy can ensue from there!''Find it here!''Movies About Africa on IMDB''To learn more awesome stuff about these movies about Africa check them out on IMDB. It’s probably our favorite site unrelated to travel. Pretty much the bread and butter of any die-hard movie fan.''The Lion King''Gorillas in the Mist''Beasts of No Nation''Virunga''Hotel Rwanda''The English Patient''The Constant Gardener''The Good Lie''I Dreamed of Africa''Half of a Yellow Sun''Casablanca''The First Grader''Madagascar''Last King of Scotland''Blood Diamond''Out of Africa''What movies about Africa can you recommend to us?''Read More:''The Best Travel Movies To Inspire Wanderlust''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''was last modified:''January 21st, 2018''by''Natasha''In this post, we cover the best toiletry bags currently on the market. It doesn’t matter whether you’re on a''long-term'', week long, or weekend trip it’s important to stay organized. We always recommend you pack the right toiletry bag because we view it as an essential part of your\xa0luggage.''Toiletry bags have two basic designs the classic toiletry bag or dopp kit and a''toiletry bag that hangs''from a shower rack or towel hook. All of these bags will help you keep your toiletries organized.\xa0It may not seem like a crucial thing, but an unorganized bag can lead to lost items, broken cosmetics, or worse like a damaged''travel laptop'', phone, or''camera''when liquid leaks.''It’s something we always travel with and this list of the best toiletry bags will be sure to make your next trip a success.''Best Toiletry Bag''Men’s Toiletry Bags''Hudson Travel Toiletry Bag''This''men’s bag''is simple and that’s what makes it great. Dopp bags don’t need to be full of sections, dividers, or new features.''I’ve often traveled with a simple bag and it’s the only way. Synthetic bags are tremendous when you’re traveling in coastal regions and in constant humidity. We were thankful our synthetic bags in the''Seychelles'',''Mozambique'', and''Zanzibar''! In my opinion synthetic bags like this are the best toiletry bags on the market.''Design Features:''Tight weave material that is sturdy and “self-healing.”''Outer zip pocket''Carrying handle''Large main compartment''Good Value''[Check The Prices Here!]''Vetelli Leather Men’s Toiletry Bag''For the money''this bag is great quality''and meets all your needs. It’s also very stylish and has the appearance of an expensive leather bag without the price.''The company uses PU leather which keeps the price down but doesn’t expect it to last as long as the more expensive leather counterparts. The Vetelli has a tremendous design with two separate compartments, waterproof material, mesh inner pockets, and it includes two travel bottles. It looks right at home in one the''best luxury safari lodges in Africa.''Design Features:''Leather look and feel''Two compartments''“Lifetime Guarantee”''Waterproof lining''Great design''[ We reached out to Vetelli and they offered a 5% discount on Amazon to all The World Pursuit readers using this code:\xa0TWORLDP5 ]''[Check The Prices Here!]''KOMALC Buffalo Leather Bag''With men’s travel equipment I’ve always been a big fan of simplicity and minimalism. The''thick leather bag''has a rugged look and will be sure to hold up over time. A large main flap unzips with two metal zippers providing ample space inside. An interior liner in the dopp bag make sure it easy to clean. It’s an easy addition to the list of best toiletry bags.''Design Features:''Solid Leather''Large main compartment''Outer Pocket''Stylish''Waterproof lining''Great design''[Check The Prices Here!]''Women’s Toiletry Bag''Yeiotsy''Cosmetic Bag''This bag has a stylish design''and plenty of features to help keep your toiletries organized. What makes this bag stand out is its organizational elements. Elastic bands on the lid allow you to store cosmetics. The outer shell is durable and water resistant and will be right at home in the wet environment.''Design Features:''Durable Material''Perfect size for a carry on bag''5 separate elastic loops for cosmetics''Inner mesh pocket''Style''Great Value''[Check The Prices Here!]''Herschel Supply Travel Kit''We’ve recommended Herschel in previous posts and we love their products.''Herschel’s travel kit''looks great and comes with a lifetime guarantee.\xa0It’s one of the best toiletry bags that is both sturdy and stylish.''There’s plenty of storage space in the interior and a compartment in the front for small flat objects like a wallet. There is also a netted pouch on the inside to access items quickly. The inside is not waterproof, so if you spill something it will leak through.''Design Features:''Great look''Solid construction''Spacious interior''Outer pocket''Rugged exterior''Value''[Check The Prices Here!]''Ili Leather Cosmetic Pouch''This small bag''serves a different purpose. The colored leather is thick and luxurious. A zippered opening is well-made and it works well with the travel bag. The Ili is a great makeup bag to compliment a larger toiletry kit. The tiny interior pocket is perfect for nail scissors and tweezers. We find this bag great for the essentials and small/compact for traveling.''Design Features:''Easy Design''Leather''Simple''Good for organizing''[Check The Prices Here!]''Keokee Clear Toiletry Bag Set''This quart-sized clear toiletry bag from Keokee is perfect for carry-on travelers. The clear bag meets TSA requirements that liquids must be in a see-through bag. It’s made of a durable material and can hold several small bottles of 3.4 ounces or less.''Design Features:''Perfect for''carry on luggage''Simple''Good Value''[Check The Prices Here!]''We’d known of the little country for a long time, but we’d always made the mistake to skip over it on our past European tours. A\xa0mistake indeed, as Luxembourg is well worth a visit. The city and country embody many quintessential European cities and countries. We were lucky enough to visit during the Christmas season and catch one of the first snowfalls of the season and even take part in Luxembourg’s wonderful Christmas markets.''Quick Facts on Luxembourg''‘Hello’ and ‘Thank You’ in Luxembourgish'':''“Moien” and “Merci”''Capital'': Luxembourg City''Currency'': Euro – (''EUR'') – €''Visa:''Schengen visa''is 90 days in the European Union every 180 days. Many nationalities are granted this on arrival for free. Check with your embassy to see if that is you. (''Interesting fact –''Schengen comes from the small town of Schengen in the SouthEast of Luxembourg where the agreement was signed.)''Weather:''Luxembourg has a moderate continental climate – summers are mild and winters are cold. It never hurts to have a jacket.''What to Pack:''It all depends on the season, but always have something warm to wear as summer nights can be cool. We always throw a''packable down jacket''in our bags.''Random Tip:''You can easily drive from Luxembourg City to just about anywhere else in the country in under an hour. Since Luxembourg is part of the Schengen Zone you may even unknowingly find yourself driving into neighboring countries.''Safety:''Luxembourg has been praised as one of the safest countries in the world. Always use common sense, especially at night, although chances are you will never have a problem.''Our Favorite Things to do in Luxembourg''Tour Luxembourg City''Luxembourg City''is a mix of the old and new with highrises rising all over the city, and a pleasant old town located in the heart of the city. It’s a melting pot of nationalities and you’ll often hear English on the streets as many foreigners come to work for banks and tech companies based in the city. It brings a pleasant expatriate vibe to vibe to the city and adds to its character.''Descend to the Grund''The heart of the old town is located below the city center along the banks of the Alzette River. It sits at the base of the former Luxembourg castle. Descending down to the Grund feels like stepping back in time and the atmosphere changes to a more relaxed pace. To get down to the Grund easily you can catch an elevator''near the judiciary building''.''Go underground at\xa0Casemates du Bock''Unfortunately\xa0for us, these were closed in the winter so we weren’t able to visit. Casemates du Bock is a series of underground tunnels that extend beneath the city’s former castle. The castle may be in ruins, but visitors can tour a section of the 17km long network of tunnels. They were carved out in the 1700’s by the Spanish military and used as storage defense. They even housed around thousands of locals in both the World Wars. Now, they are preserved as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It’s arguably one of the top things to do in Luxembourg during the summer months.''Walk through the Kirchberg district''This is Luxembourg’s modern center. The Kirchberg district has a number of contemporary art museums and is the home to several European institutions. There are a number of pleasant parks and it’s a nice place to spend a summer afternoon.''Go castle hopping''It’s a short drive out of Luxembourg City to find the lovely countryside. There are plenty of attractive villages and many are home to grand medieval castles. When we found ourselves struck by a snowstorm we found refuge in''Beaufort where we entered the town’s castle, that was actually inhabited until 2012.''Now you can visit for guided tours year round.''The most famous castle in Luxembourg is''Vianden\xa0Castle''and is only about 50km from Luxembourg city. It’s pretty simple to reach via public transports with both train and bus options. The castle was built over 300 years from the 11th – 14th centuries and it is one the largest castles from the Gothic period in Europe. It’s now been restored as a tourist attraction for 40 years.''We had the''Luxembourg Card''for the duration of our time in Luxembourg, which you can get in one to three-day increments. it covers all transport in the country as well as entry into many touristic sights such as the castle.''Sample traditional\xa0Luxembourgish food''It takes some digging as the country is very international and borrows plenty. There is a wide range of restaurants extending from bars, bistros, and gourmet restaurants. They take many of great European dishes and produce them with fresh local products to create great destinations for foodies. The country also has 12 Michelin starred restaurants. The most common Luxembourgish dish we found is called\xa0Kniddelen, a pan-fried flour dumpling, they are most commonly served with bacon and cream. We had two fantastic Luxembourgish meals at''Berdorfer Eck''in Luxembourg’s “Little Switzerland” and''Siegfried''in the heart of Luxembourg City.''Learn through museums''Luxembourg has long been at the heart of Europe and has an interesting history. The museums in Luxembourg have wonderful art exhibitions and plenty of history. In the heart of the city lies Museum-mile, a street that starts from the\xa0Villa Vauban to the highly regarded Museum of Modern Art – Mudam. Unless you’re a big history buff we suggest heading to the Museum of Modern Art to see the best of contemporary art in Luxembourg and around the world.''Squeeze through micro gorges in Mullerthall''Mullerthall is often referred to as “Little Switzerland” due to its hilly landscape and pleasant villages. We were due to go an extended hike through the region when a snowstorm began – so, unfortunately, no extensive hiking for us. However, there are a number of well-managed hiking trails through the region and its a popular summer activity for many residents, regional neighbors, and tourists. There are even a few well-managed campsites for multi-day hikes!''The most interesting attraction in Mullerthall may be''Berdorf.''It is a high point that overlooks the valleys of\xa0Black Ernz, the Sure, and the Aesbach. From the town are a number of circular hiking paths that lead down through a number of interesting cliffs, rock crevices, and caves. We would highly suggest setting aside a day to go hiking in Little Switzerland, we couldn’t believe just how beautiful it was!''Take part in the Winter festivities''There is no shortage of things to do in Luxembourg during the winter months. The city has multiple Christmas markets with two large ones drawing in hundreds of people to drink, sing, eat, and enjoy the evening. Out of all the Christmas markets we visited in Scandinavia, Eastern Europe, and Italy the ones in Luxembourg were by far the most “traditional”''We spent an evening at the markets and had a wonderful time eating food and drinking Gluhwein (mulled wine). There are other activities to have fun partaking in such as Christmas concerts, ferris wheel rides, or you can try your hand at ice skating.''Sample world-class wine''You’ve certainly heard of the Champagne region in France, but have you heard of Moselle in Luxembourg? Probably not! The region has been cultivating and producing the same sparkling beverages as the Champagne region for centuries now. We visited''Bernard Massard''for a tour of their winery and a behind-the-scenes peek at their production. They make amazing sparkling wines that you must give a try when in Luxembourg. The best part of the deal is Luxembourg has lower taxes on alcohol than France so prices are cheaper, but the quality is the same.''Sip hot chocolate at the Chocolate House''One of the best things to do in Luxembourg is to have lunch at the''Chocolate House.''This cafe and bakery is a bit of an institution in Luxembourg and it knows how to draw a crowd.\xa0 As their names suggest they specialize in chocolate and baked pastries. The cafe is most well known for their hot chocolate spoons – you get to choose a chocolate spoon in various yummy flavors before dipping it in a cup of hot milk (they have vegan options too). I would recommend making reservations if you are planning to visit with a large party on weekends, even though this place is three stories it gets packed!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Luxembourg''Now that you know some of the best things to do in Luxembourg make sure you’ve planned it out. We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partner’s below:''Stay:''We stayed at the''Park Inn''in the heart of the city. We found the location to be great and the room comfortable with a fabulous breakfast.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.World Nomads offers great prices and coverage.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We like''Lonely Planet''to get you through those wireless nights.''Train & Bus'': When traveling around Europe we love to use''GoEuro''to view train and bus times/prices. Luxembourg is very well connected via rail, but they also have an airport which is easily accessible via the city bus (numbers 29 and 16).''Adaptor:''Remember that Luxembourg uses the''Europlug''.''Read Next:''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''Planning a trip to Ireland? Here are 13 Ireland Travel Tips''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Fantastic Things to do in Luxembourg''was last modified:''January 16th, 2018''by''Natasha''If you’re in the stages of planning a trip to Ireland we’ve prepared a few Ireland travel tips to help you out!\xa0If you’re looking for one of the friendliest, greenest, and naturally beautiful countries on earth, then look no further than Ireland.''There must be something to the rolling green hills, castles, whiskey, rain, Guinness beer, and rugged coastline as it draws millions of visitors to book a trip to Ireland every year. The country’s small size and accessibility make it easy for travelers. However, there are a few things to know before you head to the Emerald Isle.''Our Ireland Travel Tips''Which Ireland?''The Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland are located on the island of Ireland. To clarify, The Republic of Ireland is its own country – while Northern Ireland is a part of the United Kingdom. It’s been like this since the 1920’s, and I think people would appreciate if the world knew the difference.''Ireland is a British Isle, but that does not make it British. Great Britain refers to the largest islands of the British Isles and represents the majority of the United Kingdom. The UK is made up of England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. It can be confusing to foreigners – so watch this video to clear it up.''You can travel freely between the two countries. We traveled freely between the two countries many times and were never stopped at a border post or had to produce a passport to get stamped.''Here’s some more detailed information''– granted this may all change thanks to the Brexit, but they say there will still be an open border. Citizens of The Republic of Ireland are referred to as Irish, while citizens of Northern Ireland are Northern Irish. Got it?''So just know that you may need both the Euro and Pound''That being said Ireland uses the Euro note and Northern Ireland uses the British Pound. I wouldn’t suggest changing currencies at a currency exchange, but an ATM to pull out the currency you need. You can read more about our''travel banking tips here''before traveling to Ireland.''Rain with a chance of sun''I’m sure you weren’t planning on traveling to Ireland for a suntan. The country is known for being very green, and that means plenty of rain! Rainfall has become a part of Irish life, especially in the west. The average number of “wet days” ranges from about 150 days to 225 days a year. Your best chance of sun and warmth in Ireland is in the summer months of June and July.''We went in late October and still had a few nice days of sunshine! I guess what I’m trying to say is be prepared for all sorts of weather when you’re planning your trip to Ireland. No matter what, remember to''pack a rain jacket.''You’ll find plenty of rainbows, but no leprechauns''With all that rain in Ireland, you will no doubt\xa0see a few rainbows. But I wouldn’t go chasing them to the end in search of a leprechaun with some gold lucky charms. Although leprechauns are part of Irish modern folklore there aren’t any real leprechauns in Ireland – sadly.''Although apparently, there are leprechauns in Mobile, Alabama…''A pint should cost no more than''€''5''If you have traveled all the way to Ireland you are probably going to want to get at least one pint of Guinness in the pub. A pint of Guinness\xa0should cost no more than\xa0€5, and if it does you are more than likely in a tourist pub that is ripping you off.''We do however recommend visiting the Guinness Store House. At\xa0€17\xa0a ticket it may be the most expensive Guinness you’ll ever pay for, but the whole experience and tour is well worth it when you are visiting Dublin. You can pick up''priority access tickets here and skip the line''!''Chase your family ancestry!''I think we were asked at least 10 times what we made us plan a trip to Ireland. Were we chasing our ancestry? Did we have relatives in Ireland? Do we have Irish blood? Truth is we just came for the beautiful countryside, history, and friendly locals.\xa0 (And I really love''PS I Love You'').''So, we always had to tell our new friends that we weren’t Irish and neither of us had Irish ancestors\xa0– at least not that we knew of. The reason we were asked so much is that there are''a lot''of tourists in Ireland – specifically a lot of American tourists like us who are tracking down their ancestors.''Between 1820 and 1930,''4.5 million Irish immigrated to America''.\xa0At one point they made up over 1/3 of the immigrants in the country. So, that means there are a lot of Irish Americans floating around today and many of them want to go chase their heritage!''The ship of dreams''Do you remember that quote in''Titanic''where Tommy O’ Ryan tells Fabrizio that “''It was an Irish ship,''” and “''15,000 Irishmen built the ship''.” It’s okay if you don’t, I have just seen the movie a hundred too many times. The grand Titanic was indeed built in Belfast, Ireland. Which back at the turn of the century was a part of Ireland (which was all still part of Britain).''The ship was built on Queen’s Island, now known as the''Titanic Quarter'', in\xa0Belfast Harbour by the shipbuilders Harland & Wolff. If you know anything about the Titanic you know that it was the largest ship of its time. SPOILER: On the night of April 14th. 1912 the ship hit an iceberg and sank.''However, her legacy has lived on in movies, books, music, and marine time safety regulations. The latest iteration is the new Titanic Belfast museum. It’s located exactly where the ship was built. I’ve been back to the museum twice and have loved it both times. It’s definitely worth a half day if you find yourself in Belfast.''Pick your tickets up in advance''You can stay at the most bombed hotel in Europe!''On Great Victoria Street in Belfast, you can find a hotel with an amazing history.''Europa Belfast Hotel''is a beautiful hotel, which you can easily see from the outside. But we were shocked to find out that is actually the most bombed hotel in not only all of Europe,''but the entire world!''During''The Troubles,''the Europa suffered 36 whopping bomb attacks. The most damaging was in 1993, and it was closed for refurbishments. Nowadays it’s the best hotel to stay at in the city. It’s an iconic part of Belfast with plenty of character. We knew we just had to stay on our visit to Belfast. We found the hotel to be charming, comfortable and beautifully decorated. Make sure to check out the piano bar even if you aren’t staying overnight!''If you love Game of Thrones, travel to Ireland''Do you watch Game of Thrones? I don’t, but Cameron does so he had a field day reliving certain scenes that are on the hit HBO show. Much of the show is filmed in Northern Ireland, and if you are a GOT geek I suggest renting a car and''driving to all the locations in Northern Ireland''to see for yourself.''Some iconic locations include the Antrim plateau, the Dark Hedges, Cushendun Caves, Murlough Bay, Ballintoy Harbour, Larrybane, Castle Ward, Inch Abbey and Downhill Strand. If you’re not keen on driving or don’t have a car rental in your budget consider booking a tour.''Book A Tour Here!''You can travel on a budget''Ireland is not the cheapest country to travel; however, it is possible to plan a trip to Ireland while staying on a budget. Hostel dorm rooms will cost anywhere from\xa0€10 to\xa0€20 a night, while you can also find a mid-range hotel room for\xa0€100.''We opted to stay in Airbnb’''s and had our own apartment for\xa0€60 a night.''Here is €35 off your next Airbnb booking so you can do the same!''The good news is that food at the grocery store is''cheap.''We were able to go to Lidl and spend\xa0€25\xa0 for three days worth of food for the two of us (granted we don’t eat meat)! Ireland produces a lot of its own food, so the food is not only affordable but great quality. Expect to pay between\xa0€7-10 for a cheap fish n chips meal. Irish cuisine is very hearty with some of the staple dishes being Irish stew and seafood pie.''You don’t NEED a car''I’ve traveled to Ireland twice now. The first time I was''backpacking Europe''and took public buses everywhere. The bus and train system in Ireland is efficient, affordable, and reliable, with most of the transport options featuring free WiFi.''On our most recent trip'', we rented a car to get around the island, which is also affordable and reliable.''Having a car is always the easier and more convenient option, but if you are just one person the cost of the rental and fuel may break your budget. I would suggest checking''Ireland’s bus timetables''to make sure you can get where you want to go with public transport. If you are a group of two or more consider renting a car.''Just note that in both Ireland and Northern Ireland drivers drive on the left side of the road and you should know how to drive a manual car as automatics are expensive. Speed limits are posted in kilometers per hour in Ireland and miles per hour in Northern Ireland – confusing.\xa0 We were able to get a car from Dublin airport for two weeks for\xa0€150 and we paid €1.20/liter for fuel. You can drive the car in and out of Northern Ireland as much as you like without border checks.''Ah, Ryan Air''If you’re wondering how to plan a trip to Ireland the first step is to purchase a flight. That’s where you may see the budget carrier Ryan Air pop up. The notorious Ryan Air is actually an Irish company. If you plan to fly around Europe from Ireland you may have to fly with the low-cost carrier. I know they’ve received quite a lot of bad and justified press in the past. But we personally have flown them at least 10 times around Europe and have never had an issue with them. Just lower your expectations, abide by all their rules to avoid extra fees, and enjoy your cheap flight – most meals out cost more than their flights!''Pack accordingly''Remember when I said that it rains a lot in Ireland? That means you should pack a rain jacket and''travel umbrella''in''your carry on luggage.''I would also recommend packing a''nice wool sweater,''scarf, and hat for those windy days.''We really enjoyed going on long walks and hiking in Ireland so it’s a good idea to pack a comfortable pair of''walking shoes.''Don’t forget that Ireland uses the Europlug and Northern Ireland uses the British three prong plug. I use an all in one''travel adaptor like this one''to get me around the world.''Practice your language skills''Both times that I traveled to Ireland I was surprised that many people were still reading and speaking Irish Gaelic. I found this most prevalent near Galway, but even the road signs around the country are in both English and Gaelic. That’s because Irish Gaelic is the first official language followed by English.''According to 2016 Irish census,''more than 70,000 people speak Irish Gaelic daily''and about 55% (c. 2,500,000) of people in the Republic claim to understand and speak the language. Of course, everyone will know English, but it doesn’t hurt to learn a few phrases before your trip, you’ll probably even impress the locals!''Plan a Trip to Ireland!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking our trips. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below''Travel Insurance:''You never know what can happen abroad, and that’s why\xa0we always travel with''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Their plans are flexible and affordable.''Water:''We found the tap water in Ireland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''Adapter:''Remember that Ireland uses the''three-prong British plug''. Make sure you have one for visiting!''Recommended Guidebook:''Lonely Planet’s Ireland.''Read Next:''20 Fun Things to do in Edinburgh on Your First Trip''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''The Best Scottish Food Restaurants: Our Culinary Journey''Driving Abroad for the First Time, From Europe to Developing Nations''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''Planning a trip to Ireland? Here are 13 Ireland Travel Tips''was last modified:''May 1st, 2018''by''Natasha''Everyone is a mixture of emotions for their first trip. I distinctly remember feeling this overwhelming sense of''going on an adventure''when I was planning my first trip to Europe. It may have only been a short trip to Amsterdam, but it was exciting and new. I had a''backpack full of clothes''and no sense of what lay ahead of me. I remember wandering the canals for hours on my first day after not grabbing a map or phone when I walked out of my hostel. With a head full of dreams I was determined to conquer the world.''Since our first trips abroad we’ve now been to over 60 countries and spent over four years of our lives traveling. Our travel style since those first days have changed, but the same travel tips that we learned have not. We still hate itineraries, too little time, and saying no to spontaneous ideas.''These travel tips are to help any new or perhaps seasoned traveler on their next trip.''Our Best Travel Tips For New Travelers''Slow down''This is the biggest mistake we see new travelers make. When you’re headed to a destination for the first time it’s easy to cram too much into a trip. You may physically be able to “see” all those cities and sights in two weeks. However, all you may end up with is stress from the constant moving and lack of depth in your travels.''As every year passes we continue to slow down. Instead, we get a more intimate feel for a destination that we are exploring and immerse ourselves in the culture. In our experience, it’s better to travel deeper rather than more. Spend more time just relaxing and allow yourself to sit in a coffee shop, nap in a park, or take a''walk on the beach''.''Go for it!''We’ve done some adventurous stuff.''However, that doesn’t mean we did so without fear. Almost every defining moment in travel comes with a sense of fear and us questioning a decision. That can range from quitting that job, booking that flight, starting that conversation, accepting that ride, or taking that jump.''Travel is about new experiences. With new experiences also comes being afraid. There have been many times when I was scared on our journey (like that time''we bought a car in Africa and no idea what we were doing''). However, I often find myself taking the leap metaphorically (''literally in the case of bungee jumping'') and I’m happy I do.\xa0 Fear is meant to guide us, not govern us.''Back when we first started traveling together in 2013''Connect with social media''We love to add travelers we meet on Facebook. Social media has brought many problems into our society, but it has also transformed it many positive ways. It also works the other way around and sometimes we actually meet people in person that we have met online.''We’re now connected to friends across the world. Many that we would not be if it were the old days and we had to email or *gasp* write letters. It’s such a common sense travel tip, but it’s easy to forget to ask for that person’s contact details. Make it a habit to ask for contact details when you meet a new friend, I promise it won’t come across as “''You guys on Myspace?''“.''Save memories, don’t fake memories''You can thank Instagram for this one. We’re big fans of taking quality photos, but still cherish the crappy pics we took when we first started traveling. Those first photos might not be “Instagram worthy,” but they are our memories. Given the prevalence of''Influencer’s photo worthy destinations'', it’s easy to get caught up in capturing that perfect moment and not actually experiencing that perfect moment. We’ve learned when we should put the phone away and just savor everything around us – we may never get it back!''Photos are meant for saving your memories not for showing off to others. I’d wager a bet we’ve taken over a million photographs with our''camera during our travels'', but each time we craft an image we spend less time worrying about that *perfect* photo. We do our best to keep''our Instagram authentic''and capture our travels through our eyes.''Budget for more''It is possible to''travel to so many parts of the world for less than $1000 a month''. That doesn’t mean you should only budget $1000 for the entirety of your trip!\xa0Accidents happen, souvenirs call your name, and travel plans change. We definitely did not''plan to buy a truck in Africa''when we landed in Johannesburg last year!''Always over budget when you plan your travels.\xa0Coming in under budget feels great, going over budget hurts. Read our''travel banking post''for more great travel tips regarding finances.''Don’t judge a book by its cover''This age-old saying also applies to travel destinations. Bus stations are almost always located outside the main city centers and may be the first thing you see when you travel. Sometimes train stations can be located in some downright dodgy locations and there are always bad apples wherever you are, but people, in general, are kind. It’s easy to meet someone or end up in certain destinations and allow your first impression to guide your travel decisions.''Get to know a destination before labeling it undesirable. Some our favorite destinations include Mozambique and Naples.''Mozambique turned out to be one of our favorite places in Africa''and Naples may be the''most interesting city in Italy –''both have bad reputations.''Be different!''When you travel people are going to be interested in your story – accept it. Whether it be new friends at a hostel or a bunch of Tanzanians who haven’t seen a “Mzungu” in their guesthouse for a while. Embrace the fact you have a unique identity!''Where are you from? How long are you traveling? Where is your favorite destination?''Or my personal favorite –''How can you afford to travel?''You’re going to get a lot of the same questions, a lot of different questions, and many, many personal questions. Accept them, and be curious back.''Trash the guidebook''We have a love/hate relationship with guidebooks. They are often filled with tons of destination-specific travel tips and can provide an excellent overview without being reliant on the internet. However, they can also provide outdated information and send every tourist to same “off-the-beaten-path” destination.''That bar for locals may not be so authentic now that it’s on Lonely Planet or Rick Steves. Your best bet is to ask locals where to head or what to do when you arrive at a new destination. We’re always pestering our hosts about what they recommend to do and eat in the area.''Less = More''Travel doesn’t require much – only a passport, a little cash, and a bag. When we first started traveling it was so easy to pack too many clothes and toiletries. We had a big problem with the belief that we wouldn’t find toothpaste or shampoo abroad so we just had to pack it in bulk. Wow, was that a heavy mistake!''You probably need about half of what you’re thinking about bringing, just focus on concentrating on what you will actually need. Buy a smaller bag, find clothing items that are multifunctional like a''packable down jacket,''and research and pack for the right seasons.''Talisker Storm and the Isle of Skye''Plan less and say yes!''In our experience, planning every day out hour by hour will only cause stress. You’ll never be able to predict how each day and location will unfold. The result of over-planning may mean you have to\xa0start saying no to spontaneous opportunities.\xa0Wouldn’t you rather tell your new found friends “''Yes let’s go to that secret beach”''instead of “''No, sorry I have a train to catch''.”''Our travel tip to planning is to make a list of things that are of interest and go from there. It’s a nice combination of planning, without having to adhere to a poor schedule and get frustrated if/when the schedule doesn’t work out. That way when something exciting arises you can say, “YES!”''Like having a wee dram of Scotch at midday.''We promise the world is nowhere near as scary or dangerous as it may seem. Relax, be smart, pack well, and travel differently.''Not big on reading? Check out our Youtube!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''My 25 Best Travel Tips From Traveling 60+ Countries in my Twenties''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''Tricks On How To Save On Accommodation''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Cameron''A road trip in South Africa is the ideal way to explore the country. South Africa has a good infrastructure of roads and plenty of sights to during a long road trip. For us, it was our first introduction to Sub-saharan Africa and our first destination to go on safari.''We arrived in South Africa bright-eyed and excited to embark on an epic South African road trip. The Cape of Africa contains vast and diverse landscapes that are unlike any other place on earth. In Kruger National Park we spotted lions and elephants, the''Drakensberg Mountain''found us peering over 3,000-foot cliffs, and Hermanus brought us''face to face with great white sharks''.''There is so much to see in South Africa that even with three months it’s unlikely we ever stood a chance to see it all. In this South Africa road trip guide, we’ll hit the main points of interest. We suggest you pick and choose what is of most interest to you with the amount of time you have!''Plan Your South Africa Road Trip''What Car to Rent?''Companies''We found''Hertz''and''Avis''to be the most affordable for a long-term rental, but had the best experience was with''First''a Sixt affiliate. We also tried out''Rent-A-Cheapie''in Cape Town and had a mixed experience with them.''Campervan''If you want a new experience camping in Africa is a\xa0fantastic way to explore.''Happy Campers have now launched a branch out of Cape Town. Check them out''! We have partnered with''Happy Campers in Iceland''and can now offer''our readers a 5% discount using this link and our code “TWP5”''.''4×4 Truck''An extremely popular way to explore Southern Africa is by renting a 4×4 truck. Not everyone has the time, patience, or want to''purchase a truck like we did'', so you have companies like''Bushlore''that rent out fully kitted 4×4. If you plan to drive into the real African bush like Botswana or Mozambique this is the way to go, but prepared to spend money as the rentals are expensive. We didn’t need a four wheel drive vehicle anywhere in South Africa.''Car Rental Logistics''Insurance''Our credit card covers us in South Africa. Additionally, gas prices in South Africa and Namibia include a third party insurance on all cars. If driving into Mozambique or Botswana you are required to purchase third-party insurance (''$20-$35'')''Fuel Prices''$15 ZAR a liter ($1.10 a lt or $4.15 a gallon) at the time of writing.''Paperwork''To exit the country with a rental car you are required to have a preauthorized letter from the rental car company. This is to ensure you have legally rented the vehicle and may exit the country. (Many companies charge a flat fee for a letter we paid\xa0$50 to go into Mozambique, Lesotho, and Swaziland)''GPS''We always pick up a local SIM card when we arrive in a new country. It’s always a good idea to have a working phone in case of emergencies. We picked up a''SIM card with Vodacom''and we were able to top up our phone from their website with a credit card. That way we always had data to run a GPS from our smart phone. Google Maps is a good GPS option in South Africa and you can download the map right to your phone for future use.''The Ultimate South Africa Itinerary''Johannesburg''Most trips to South Africa will start and end in either Johannesburg or Cape Town. Ours began in Johannesburg\xa0on a bright and sunny winter day and we were eager and ready to explore. It was our first time to Africa and we were excited to road trip around South Africa. The two main cities also have a large supply of rental cars so we were able to get an affordable rate for our rental car, we paid $600 for 30 days for a Toyota bakkie.''Once you have your car it is quite easy to get around the city. There are so many things to do in Johannesburg. A guided tour around Soweto is a popular option. Another good option is to head to the''Market on Main.''The market on main was the top thing that our Airbnb hosts recommended us to do on Sunday mornings between 10 and 3 in downtown Jo-burg. We had a great time eating local food, soaking up the sun on the patio, and checking out local artisans.''Insider Tip:''Johannesburg is not that safe, especially at night. We recommend\xa0you avoid nighttime driving as car jacks are frequent in certain areas.''Kruger National Park''With any road trip in South Africa, a''self-drive safari in Kruger National Park''is a must. Kruger National park is about a four-hour drive from Johannesburg. It’s the largest park in South Africa and is home to''the big five animals.''Not only is it perfect for safari, but we found it to be the easiest park in Africa to self-drive. Roads are paved, well signed, and a safari here is affordable – heck there is even a Mugg & Bean inside the park!''It’s a tremendous budget option for backpackers or those on a tight budget as it can be on your own without a guide. The park is huge so I would recommend at least two or three days to get the most of it. You have a few types of accommodation in the park – high-end lodges, parks managed affordable and adequate accommodation, and campsites. Booking in advance is highly recommended all types of accommodation especially in the high season. Our first day in Kruger National Park (and third day in Africa) we saw all of big five animals, it was amazing!''Top Tip: There are other popular things to do around Kruger National Park. Two options are to visit the''HESC Cheetah project''and''Moholoholo Rehab center.''Swaziland''If you want to cross another country off your bucket list then we would suggest you head into the tiny Kingdom of Swaziland.''The Kingdom of Swaziland''is a landlocked country in Southern Africa between''Mozambique''and South Africa. If you are looking for a reason to include Swaziland on your South African road trip consider this: Swaziland is one of the last absolute monarchies in the world. Yes, a real king rules\xa0Swaziland.''You can easily go into Swaziland for a day or two and enjoy a hike up Sibebe Rock, attend a concert and a sundowner at House on Fire, or go on an unguided walking safari in\xa0Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary. We spent a week in Swaziland because we had friends in the country, but I think you could make the most of it in a few days.''Some things to note about Swaziland is that their currency, the Swazi Lilangeni is pegged 1:1 with the rand and prices are about the same as in South Africa. Americans can access Swaziland visa-free and we found the border to be one of the easiest we traveled to in Africa. Always check with your embassy to see visa regulations.''Top tip:''It’s important to check with your rental car company about the drive across borders. Some may charge a fee to do this, while others include it in their rental contract.''Durban''Durban is the largest city in the KwaZulu-Natal province. If you are into big cities with a side dose of Afro-Indian culture you may enjoy a stop here. It’s true that more Indians reside in Durban than any other country in the world (besides India). That means that they have the best Indian food and curries in the country – hands down.''Durban also has “The Golden Mile,” the nickname for the beaches near downtown that stretch along the Indian Ocean, and is great for surfing and windy beaches.''I wouldn’t say Durban is a must add to your South African road trip, but it’s definitely a fun and thriving city that make for a good place to stock up on supplies, hit up some restaurants, and have a coffee on the beach.''Clarens and the Drakensberg Mountains''Clarens has been voted the best small town in South Africa, and once you get there you’ll see why. The lovely town sits at the foot of the Drakensberg mountains. It’s affordable, charming, and has everything you could hope to find in a small town including a brewery and coffee shop. The town’s nickname is “The Jewel Of The Free State,” and it’s in close proximity to the''Golden Gate Highlands National Park.''It’s one of the most beautiful parks in South Africa. The park only has some large antelope so it’s safe to go practice outdoor sports without being prey. Popular activities in the park include horseback riding, mountain biking, and hiking.''Our highlight of the region is a hike up to\xa0Sentinel Peak situated at the top of Drakensberg amphitheater. The hike is a full day''adventure''and not for the faint of heart. Seriously, the hike is hard and dangerous, especially in bad weather conditions. You have to freely climb two chain ladders on a cliff face over 100 meters to get to the top, but the view is one of the best in Africa and the hike is a day-long adrenaline rush.''My tip:''Start your hike early and go prepared with enough food and water to get you through the day. Check in with the guys at the entrance and sign out when you are done with your hike.''Lesotho''Hidden within the Drakensberg mountains lies The “Kingdom in the Sky.” Also known as Lesotho, it is a small country within South Africa. Interestingly enough it’s considered the highest country in the world as it is entirely 1000m above sea level. Lesotho is a hidden gem within South Africa that near enough people take the time to explore. It’s people, mountain landscape, and culture are unique and can be found nowhere else in the world.''We enjoyed several days exploring the country and wished we had allocated more time. Some fun things to do are to skiing at one of Africa’s only ski resorts (''you read that right''), Maletsunyane Falls, hundreds of hikes, and pony trekking through the mountains. However, Lesotho’s greatest draw is the ability to explore places few have been before you.''Good to know:''The\xa0Lesotho Loti is another currency pegged 1:1 with the South African Rand and prices are comparable to South Africa. Again, the border crossing here is''extremely''simple and we did not need a visa. Check with your car rental company to make sure you can cross borders.''Wild Coast''The Wild Coast is considered by many a gorgeous region of South Africa. It extends from the Eastern part of the KwaZulu-Natal to East London. The coastline is a series of dramatic cliff faces, lush landscapes, and stunning beaches.''After Lesotho, we made our way to the coast to relax on the beautiful beaches. During apartheid, most of the region was politically and economically independent, which now makes it one of the poorest areas of South Africa. It is a stark contrast to the rich cities of Johannesburg, Cape Town, and Durban.''In comparison to the rest of South Africa, tourism is low and the infrastructure is poor. To explore the area we suggest planning and booking ahead specifically for guesthouses as rooms can fill up fast. Notable places to stop are Coffee Bay, Cinsta, Morgans Bay, and Mthatha.''Jeffreys Bay''Have you seen the iconic movie,''Endless Summer?''The one where two surfers go chasing an endless summer in a few African nations like South Africa, Senegal, Ghana, and Nigeria. Well, one of the locations they surfed at is Jeffreys Bay. This bay is\xa0known as the “The Surf Mecca of the World” so if you are a surfer or interested in trying surfing Jeffreys Bays is your spot. The whole area is famed for it’s pristine Blue Flag Beaches, ideal for a leisurely afternoon sunbathing sesh.''The Garden Route''The Garden Route is a 300-kilometer stretch that begins at Storms River in the Eastern Cape and stretches along the coast to Mossel Bay in the Western Cape. You technically could drive South Africa’s Garden Route in one day, but we would not recommend that! You should savor it and take your time. It’s one of the best drives in the world so rushing would be a shame.''Tsitsikamma National Park''Tsitsikamma National Park''is a coastal park with green forests and rocky death-defying shores. If you want to be outside and in nature then stop here for a day hike or to get on the mountain bike trails.''Nature’s Valley''Nature’s Valley is a small town along the Garden Route most famous for the''Bloukrans Bridge bungee jump.''Since 1997, Face Adrenalin has been throwing people off this 215-meter high bridge. This makes it the highest bungee jump bridge in the world and there was no way we were going to miss out on that. If a bungee jump is on your bucket list then this is one of the best places in the world.''If you’re not into heights there are other things to do in this small town that make it worthy of a stop. Consider hiking the\xa0Kalander Kloof Hiking Trail, going to Natures Valley beach, or having a coffee at the Natures\xa0Way Farmstall.''Knysna''We were in need of some TLC after a few weeks on our South Africa road trip. We made the decision to stop in Knysna for a few days to regroup. Knysna is a charming little seaside town that’s great for relaxing. However, I have to admit the real reason we stopped here was for the oysters.''Dubbed the culinary capital of oysters and other delectable seafood, Knysna is world famous for its seafood. Better yet, oysters, which typically are a luxury item are rather affordable here at 100-200 South African Rand a shell. If you’re there in July make sure to hit up the''Knysna Oyster Festival''.''There are also hiking trails in the mystical Knysna Forest. If you would rather a nice easy walk I suggest grabbing a cup of coffee and heading straight to “The Heads” for sunset.''Mossel Bay''Mossel Bay is a harbor town along the Garden Route.\xa0 It has sandy beaches to enjoy in the summertime and an array of an''adventure''of activities. Mossel Bay is a good stop along the Garden Route if you are looking for any handicrafts, a good bite to eat, and just to get out and enjoy the fresh air. We stopped here along our South African road trip to go to''Gondwana Game Reserve for a five-night safari in their eco camp.''This was one of the most affordable''safaris we had in all of Africa''and I highly recommend it if you are in the Western Cape.''Hermanus''Hermanus is the whale watching destination in South Africa, and being less than two hours away from Cape Town it is accessible. It’s also where you can go cage diving with Great White sharks if that is something you want to fit into your South African road trip itinerary.''We made our way here when we were based in Cape Town; however, I wish we would have just hit it on our way down the coast to save time and gas. Nevertheless, it’s still a worthwhile stop if you want to get out in the water or take to the trails and hike among the unique fynbos in the Western Cape.''Stellenbosch''Just a 45-minute drive away from Cape Town lies one the best wine regions in the world and to travel all the way to South Africa and not include Stellenbosch in your road trip would be a mistake! Stellenbosch is a hip city in the Western Cape. There’s a nice downtown area with plenty of nice bars, restaurants, and cafes to relax at. However, that’s not the claim to fame.''Did you know that South Africa produces over 959 million liters of wine each year,''making the country the seventh-largest wine producer in the world? Over 200 of those wine producers are in Stellenbosch. So if you enjoy good wine at an insanely cheap cost\xa0(like $6 a good bottle cost) then make a pit stop in Stellenboach and go on''some wine tours''.''Their signature blend is Pinotage, a red wine grape variety.\xa0 Stellenbosch is also surrounded by mountains so once you drink all that wine you can head out to''go hike and work it off!''I would suggest two to three days for Stellenbosch.''Cape Town''When we mentioned to a fellow South African that Cape Town would be our last stop on our South Africa road trip he said, “Well, sounds like you’re saving the best for last.”! While everyone’s opinions may differ on Cape Town it actually turned out to be our favorite stop in South Africa, and one of the''coolest cities in the entire world.''Table Mountain is a part of the city and visible from almost everywhere in the city. Across from Table Mountain is Lion’s Head, and both are popular for a hike and an evening sundowner. There are dozens of things that''to do in\xa0 Cape Town''and the Cape Peninsula.''A highlight of any trip has to be Cape Point, where you can marvel at the mountainous and scenic surroundings. You can check out the penguins at Boulders Beach, go snorkeling with seals or stroll around colorful''Bo-Kaap''. Cape Town is the perfect mix of adventure and leisure mixed with''hip coffee shops and restaurants.''Read Next:''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''20 Africa Travel Tips to Help You Prepare for an Epic Trip''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''How We Drove Across Africa for $300''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''was last modified:''March 25th, 2018''by''Natasha''Driving around''Iceland''in a camper van is a nature lover’s dream vacation. After all, one does not go to Iceland to spend all their time in a hotel room, but most don’t want to brave the cold nights in a tent.''The Ring Road, or Route 1, is the road that circles the entire island nation of Iceland. We’ve talked about this fantastic journey several times before, but its popularity means we get a lot of requests for more insights to''travel in Iceland.''Exploring Iceland via''campervan''is one of the best ways to tackle the Ring Road. In this guide, we share our best tips to survive Iceland in a camper van.''Iceland Campervan Tips''Have a general itinerary''The name of the Ring Road should be pretty self-explanatory. It’s a road that covers around 1,300 kilometers and circumnavigates the whole country of Iceland. The whole route should take about 16 hours if you drive non-stop – but who wants to do that?''It’s impossible to nail the perfect Ring Road itinerary. Our biggest suggestion is to travel at your own pace, it doesn’t matter if you go fast or slow or if you miss some sights along the way. Just as long as you happy traveling at the pace you are going. If you’re looking for a good amount of time we’d suggest somewhere between one to two weeks. We went with 10 days and it felt like an ideal amount of time. It left us wanting more, but never tired of the trip.''When planning your itinerary, map out all your stops. There will be plenty of unplanned stops along the way and it’s best not to feel rushed. We try our best to avoid setting our days to a strict timetable because we know we will never be happy if we do that.''Get the right van''One of the first steps in planning your Iceland campervan trip is to determine your rental company. We drove around the Ring Road in a''Happy Campers''van and loved it.''Happy Campers''is family run by local Icelanders and you can find the whole family involved. We were checked out by the Sverrir or the “Happy Boss.” While his son was responsible for setting up our booking and another picked us up from the airport. They’re very much a family business wanting to show visitors the best of the country, and something we really appreciate.''The van comes with all you could need for a''camping trip in Iceland''. It has awesome features such as a heater for the cold nights, running water sink, and a fridge/freezer.''If you want to learn more read our''Happy Campers review''.''We are also able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “TWP”''Manual vs. Automatic''You should be prepared to drive a manual van. As with the rest of the world (besides the US), most of the camper vans in Iceland are manual, but there are a few automatic vehicles. If you do require one an automatic vehicle make sure to book well in advance and expect to pay a premium for it.''Size Matters''Consider the size of your campervan before you book. There is a few different size options ideal for one, two, three, and up to five people.\xa0 We went with a Happy 2 for the two of us. The van was spacious and comfortable for two people. However, with a larger campervan comes reduced fuel economy so you’ll be paying more for that larger vehicle in more ways than one. Gas is really expensive in Iceland, almost $8 a gallon. Think carefully about the campervan model you choose.''Insurance issues''When checking out a camper van in Iceland you have a lot of options for choosing insurance.''Happy Campers''includes CDW as it is mandatory in Iceland. If you go with the standard insurance your liability limit is €2500. They also offer packages that reduce the waiver, sand damage, and gravel damage.''We went with the gravel insurance, but I personally found it to be a waste, as the roads were great in Iceland during October. Had we traveled during the''winter and windier months'', I believe it could have come in more useful.\xa0 Also, look into what your credit card covers for auto insurance. Most American credit cards offer auto rental insurance as a benefit and I would recommend calling your credit card company beforehand to double check what they cover. If you don’t have a credit card it’s definitely time to get one as it’s an''important part of travel banking''.''Hold the door!''In the lead up to our trip to Iceland, we came from a''North Coast 500 road trip in Scotland''and a''road trip around the Faroe Islands''so we knew what to expect. The North Atlantic and Iceland have some seriously high winds. When you’re exiting a car make sure to hold firmly to your car door – otherwise it may blow right off the car and that isn’t covered by insurance. We’re not kidding!''Enjoy your sleep!''Expect it to be pretty cold in Iceland. Our campervan had a heater we could run all night if we wanted and it kept us toasty warm in the brisk Autumn air. If you’re renting a van without a heater or you don’t want to run the heat all night''bring a warm sleeping bag.''If you’re really looking for comfort I would suggest a down comforter from home. The beds in campervans can be extremely firm so a camping pad will make all the difference.When you’re ready to camp for the night make sure to park the van on level ground unless you enjoy sleeping with your feet higher than your head.''The key here is to bring everything you’re comfortable with to make the van feel like home for the next week or few days.''Tip* If you really enjoy brewed coffee like us bring''a french press.''Budget for gas!''Be prepared to shell out some money when you head to the pump in Iceland. Gas costs nearly $2 USD a liter or $8 a gallon. We also found American credit cards do not work at many of the pumps. To pay, make sure you ask an attendant to unlock the pump and then pay afterward inside with a credit card. Or you can pay with a debit card that has a pin number.''Make sure to be aware of distances in between fuel stations, granted we found them all over Iceland and never ran low on fuel. For our 10 day itinerary, we spent around $400 on fuel – YIKES. Make sure to budget for this one, as it’s easy to forget.''There’s no bad weather, just bad clothes''Remember that you’re traveling around Iceland in a campervan. The smallest models don’t leave a lot of room for a massive checked bag. The obvious thing to pack is warm weather clothing. A great option is to pack a duffel bag or''backpack''that has soft sides and can be stuffed under a seat.''Of course, always''pack down jacket'', sweater, wool socks, and''a travel towel''. The towel is really important if you plan to go to hot springs and public pools. We have a''post on what to pack for Iceland''if you want more clothes recommendations. It should also go without saying that Iceland is seriously photogenic so you’re going to want a''great camera for travel photography''.''Here are some things we’d recommend to make your campervan more at home in Iceland.''Coffee press''Down comforter''Spare camping burner''Favorite pillow''Camping pad''Leatherman''(I carry the Wingman model)''Tripod (Photograph the Northern Lights!)''Specialty food products''Stay Organized''It’s crucial to keep your van organized on your Iceland trip, this is important in more ways than one. It won’t take long to figure out that loose items in the back have a habit of shifting everywhere. We worked hard to keep the back of the van organized so we didn’t lose anything.''This meant we could easily access anything and it kept the small space from turning into a pigsty. Ten days in a van with two people it would be easy to let everything get out of hand.''Also, pick up a few basic cleaning supplies like a rag and multi-purpose cleaner. Our van came with a brush that we used to keep our floor clean. Without this, the van would have been a disaster zone.''If it’s your first time camping, we can not''recommend bamboo baby wipes''enough as they make it easy to keep yourself fresh. Of course, any baby wipe will do, but they are terrible for the environment so try to opt for biodegradable ones.''Choose a good campsite''You can not camp freely in a motorized vehicle in Iceland. It is required by law that you have written permission from the landowner, or in other words, a receipt. There are a plethora of campsites around Iceland in the summer and''Happy Campers''created this map on their''website to help you find one.''Campsites in Iceland are generally decent with facilities such as showers, toilets, and sometimes even WiFi. The majority of campsites close down for the winter though. We drove the Ring Road in October and found many of the campsite to have already closed on September 30th.''The availability of campsites will depend on the time of year. Traveling in October, we found it to be hit or miss. The good news is that you can still camp at most sites 365 days a year for free; you just won’t have access to facilities like toilets during the offseason.''Remember when I mentioned baby wipes?''The average camping fee ranges from 1000 ISK ($10US) to 2000 ISK ($20 US) per person, per night. Many times showers are not included in this price, and cost 300-500ISK for a three to five-minute shower. That’s why we love getting naked in''Iceland’s public swimming pools instead.''Eat good food!''Natasha and I are no strangers to prepping easy meals, and we’ve gotten better over time. Campervans don’t provide a ton of prep space so it’s best that you stick to simple meals. If you want to learn about food costs we have outlined them in our''guide to grocery stores in Iceland''.''Wraps:''These are super simple. Cameron made hot wraps by cooking a stir fry in a pan using vegan hoisin duck, frozen veggies, and mushrooms. Dish it out in some wraps and top with vegan cheese. (You can use the real stuff too!)''Rice'': It’s a staple and finding a way to make it your own will take you for miles. We like to top our rice with peas, corn, avocado, eggs, and a sweet Thai chili sauce. (There are hundreds of variations of this!)''Soup'': We love to make soup because it’s delicious, requires one pot, and it fills you up. For an easy and healthy soup, Cameron recommends the following:''Saute onions in a pot until translucent, add mushrooms, tomatoes, vegetable stock (bouillon cubes to save space), rice, potatoes, carrots, and season with paprika. If you’re a meat eater cook it first with the onions. The key to a soup is layering flavors and letting it simmer for a long time''.''Pancakes'': Who doesn’t love pancakes? They’re dead simple and when you top them with peanut butter they’ll keep you going for hours. For camping, we suggest the premade mix from the store.''Pasta'': Roasted red pepper, pesto, avocado, or mushroom stroganoff there are countless variations of pasta you can make. We love to mix them with frozen veggies when camping in Iceland. Fresh produce is expensive in Iceland!''BYOB''Newsflash! Iceland is expensive and alcohol costs are obscene. A bottle of the budget vodka Smirnoff costs $70. You are permitted to bring a bottle of your own booze into the country, so we came prepared with a great bottle of gin from the U.K. If you’re worried about the weight or a bottle breaking your next option is to purchase alcohol at the Airport in duty-free before you enter the country.\xa0Outside of duty-free stores at the airport, you can only purchase alcohol at the state-run stores called\xa0Vinbudin.''Go in the right season''There isn’t exactly the''best time to visit Iceland'', but there is a best time for each individual traveler. It’s about managing expectations and knowing what to expect. It is a country known for having a lot of wind, rain, and snow so it’s not always going to be sunshine and perfect days. Generally, if you want to see snow and the Northern Lights head to Iceland from October – February. If you want long days and more mild weather go in between the months of April to September. Just be warned the summer months are high season and everything including campervan rentals in Iceland will cost more.''Don’t forget travel insurance''The more we travel the more we appreciate having travel insurance. Adventure travel, hiking, safari, snowboarding, and driving in foreign countries comes with an inherent risk. With the cost of healthcare and risk of needing medical evacuation we always carry travel insurance.''Reliable travel insurance covers you beyond health as it can cover rental cars, missed flights, trip cancellations, and more.\xa0Our recommendation is to pick up a policy with''World Nomads''as they’re excellent at medium – short term plans.''Download a good travel playlist''Be prepared for some long drives and plenty of time on the road. If you’re looking for a''great travel playlist or music''we’ve got you covered. Just make sure you download all your music to your phone as you may not always have a connection.''Get a sweet discount''If you book through our link and use our code “TWP5” you get 5% off at your checkout with Happy Campers. Okay, it may not be 50% off, but it’s a good start somewhere – have we mentioned Iceland is expensive? And if you’re using a''decent rewards credit card''that discount can be extended to 7% as the best travel credit cards provide around 2% cash back. It’s the small expenses that are key to our''success in saving for travel''.''Watch Our Campervan Journey''Read Next:''A 12 Day Iceland Road Trip Itinerary (Ring Road + Snaefellsnes Peninsula)''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''Happy Campers Review: The Best Camper Van Company in Iceland? (+Coupon!)''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''13 Tips to Survive a Camperven Trip in Iceland''was last modified:''April 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''There are a few things you need to know before you travel to Scotland. With two amazing and historic cities in Glasgow and Edinburgh, and more opportunities for outdoor activities there is something for everyone in Scotland. As long as you don’t mind some unpredictable cloud coverage with a chance of rain.''We had more than just a wee bit of fun in the charismatic and stunning highlands of Scotland. It’s packed with history, stunning landscapes, great food, and charismatic locals.''It doesn’t matter if you are a regular traveler or first-time traveler these are a few things you should know before you travel to Scotland, the rest I’m sure you will figure it when you get there!''Traveling to Scotland for the First Time?''Just a Wee Drink''There are two things you need to know about people of Scotland. They are some of the friendliest people on earth and they like to drink. Don’t be surprised when you hear the classic line “oh, it’s just a wee drink” or “how ’bout a wee dram o’ whisky.” Although, Scotch is of national pride and an amazing spirit it is not what the Scottish drink everyday. The most popular drink these days is gin and beer.\xa0So, we got to make friends and''relive our days of African safari''with some gin & tonics.''Wow!''You should get used to saying the word wow if you are planning a''road trip around Scotland''! The rugged mountains that appear to be older than time itself are cloaked in thick heather that washes across the landscape in a sea of green and purple. In all the places we have traveled the Scottish Highlands is one of the most beautiful regions we have ever seen. We weren’t prepared for the beauty of the highlands or the Isle of Skye and knew nothing about the landscape of Scotland before arriving. It only took an hour of driving out of Edinburgh before we were out of the car snapping photos.''Freedom to Roam''One thing to know when you take your trip to Scotland is there is no such thing as trespassing. Everyone has the right to roam along the countryside, including farms.\xa0The''“freedom to roam”''is the public’s right to access public or privately owned land for\xa0recreation. This doesn’t include houses, gardens, or military bases, so don’t go squatting on someone’s porch, but it does allow people to enjoy the land and inland water for their own well being. The only stipulation is that you must do so\xa0responsibly and safely.''So, mind the sheep and close the gate!''Cloudy With a Chance of Sun''Despite what you may see in countless photos and videos (we’re guilty) Scotland has some notorious weather. Expect clouds, rain, wind, sideways rain, fog, and the occasional sun. If you’re coming to Scotland for a suntan you may want to rebook your flights. It’s best you come prepared with at least a rain jacket and waterproof boots.''Forget the umbrella!''Wind + Umbrella = Not Good''If you want to know more we’ve got a''packing post for Scotland!''FREEDOM!''There is a serious amount of Scottish pride these days. With a rich culture and the Scottish flag flying just about everywhere it’s impossible not to get into the Scottish mood.''Forget Fish & Chips''The Atlantic Ocean supplies a copious amount of amazing seafood to Scotland. Fish and chips may a be a classic dish, but there is a lot more to food in Scotland these days than a fried piece of cod. Look for amazing smoked salmon, fresh oysters, langoustine, trout, scallops, and even sea urchin. We had some amazing meals on our Scotland trip. You can check out''the best of our Scottish food here''.''Beware the Midges''If there is one terrible, terrible, terrible thing about Scotland it is the bloody midges – and the Scots will agree! We’ve dealt with a lot of insects in our travels, but none as bad as midges''(and yes that includes our year in Africa''). They are tiny flying insects that are attracted to your nose, eyes, mouth, and every exposed piece of skin. Oh, and they fly in swarms and they bite. If you run across a patch of these flying demons you will know it. The best defense is some bug spray and clothes that cover your skin. We did see some photographers''with these things that might be a worth while investment…''We didn’t know if we should laugh or applaud them.''Aye Lassie and Lads''Loch, hill, ben, and glen are just a few names you’ll need to learn when you travel to Scotland. These aren’t names of people, but various natural features you’ll find throughout the country. Lochs are what the rest of the English speaking world refers to as lakes. Hill or Ben can refer to a mountain, and glen means valley. Also, I’m convinced all pirate talk in movies is just a bunch of Scots. Aye, lassie!''There are a Few Narrow Roads''Wondering how to travel in Scotland? Well one of the best ways is to drive yourself! If you plan to drive through the Scottish Highlands or the''North Coat 500''be prepared for some single track roads. The vast majority of roads in Scotland are one lane with small passing area to allow to oncoming cars to pass.''These passing points are roughly every 400 meters or so to let oncoming traffic get through. The car closest to a passing point should be the one to yield. That does not mean crossing the path of another vehicle into the passing point. If the passing place is on your side of the road you move over, if it is on their side you wait for them to approach you.''and just a few shaggy cows\xa0and black sheep''There are more sheep in the Scottish Highlands than there are people. In other words there are a lot of sheep, like a ton, Scotland thank you for supplying the world with wool.''They also gave us an animal with probably the best hairdo in the world. The Highland Cow, ‘ighland coo’, shaggy cow, or kyloe. If you’re traveling Scotland spotting one of these iconic animals is an absolute must.''Plan a Trip to Scotland!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Travel Insurance:''You never know what can happen abroad, and that’s why\xa0we always travel with''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Their plans are flexible and affordable.''Internet:''If you want to stay connected while in Scotland I would recommend picking up a Sim card and purchasing data when you arrive. We personally purchased 12 GB of data for\xa0£20 with''Three.''Their coverage extended into patches of the highlands and allowed us to at the very least check our emails, Instagram, and Facebook each day. Other comparable telecom companies in the UK include O2 and Vodafone.''Water:''We found the tap water in Scotland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''Adapter:''Remember that Scotland uses the''three-prong British plug''. Make sure you have one for visiting!''Recommended Guidebook:''Lonely Planet’s Scottish Highlands.''Read Next:''The Best Scottish Food Restaurants: Our Culinary Journey''20 Fun Things to do in Edinburgh on Your First Trip''What to Pack for Scotland • Don’t Forget This Stuff''Great North Coast 500 Accommodation & Where We Stayed!''Where To Stay In Edinburgh: Our Favorites!''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay • Celebrating New Year’s Eve in Scotland''January 21, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''10 Things to Know Before you Travel to Scotland''was last modified:''May 1st, 2018''by''Cameron''A road trip around''Iceland’s Ring Road''should be on everyone’s travel bucket list. If you’re looking for an adventure you’ll never forget this trip as it is''unforgettable''. We chased a countless number of waterfalls and volcanoes, soaked in geothermal hot springs, and explored beautiful glaciers.''There is just so much to do and see in''Iceland''that’s it hard to ever get bored. It’s an outdoor fanatics dream. We spent 12 days venturing around Iceland and saw so many amazing things, but could have easily have spent months and not even scratched the surface.''I wanted to share with you our Iceland Ring Road trip itinerary so you can do the same on your trip to Iceland!''Iceland’s Ring Road''The name of the Ring Road should be pretty self-explanatory. It’s a road that covers around 1,300 kilometers and circumnavigates the whole country. The whole route should take about 16 hours if you drive non-stop. However, we’d recommend at least a week for your Iceland road trip itinerary.''Why? You’re going to stop for photographs and want to admire the nature. We were constantly pulling off to the side of the road to go for a hike up a waterfall or to take photographs. Our trip took us 10 days which was a comfortable amount of time. It would be easy to tack on more or less. Most people choose to drive the Ring Road counter-clockwise for some reason, but we found it didn’t matter.''How to Plan an Iceland Road Trip''Camper Van Rental''If you plan to make it around Iceland on your road trip a car rental is essential. We’d recommend you skip out on a tour and do the drive yourself as Iceland is a pretty easy destination to travel.''With your own car, you have the freedom to stop when and where you want. We drove around the Ring Road in a''Happy Campers''van.''By renting a camper van we were able to cover our accommodation and transport at one price. We’d drive whatever felt comfortable that day and park in a campsite for the night.''The van comes with all you could need for a''camping trip in Iceland''. It has awesome features such as a heater for the cold nights, running water sink, and a fridge/freezer.''We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''”''GPS & Mobile Phone''We always pick up local SIM cards and recommend every traveler does the same. We suggest picking''up a SIM card''. There is a store right down the road from where we picked up our Happy Campers, ask when checking out and they’ll point you in the right direction. Or you can pay €40 for the WiFi add-on for the duration of your rental.''Also, we always download an offline map via Google Maps application and one via Maps.me. You cell phone GPS runs without needing data and since the maps are stored on your phone you have a working GPS for free! After''driving overland across Africa'', we don’t play around with directions – granted you’re only driving one road in Iceland!''Gas Stations''Be prepared to shell out some money when you head to the pump in Iceland. Gas costs nearly $2 USD a liter or $8 a gallon in Iceland. We also found American credit cards do not work at many of the pumps. To pay to make sure you ask an attendant to unlock the pump and then pay afterward inside with a credit card.''Make sure to be aware of distances in between fuel stations, granted we found them all over Iceland. For our 10 day itinerary, we spent around $400 on fuel. Make sure to budget for this one, as it’s easy to forget.''What to Eat?''Before we hit the road we filled our van up with groceries from the budget''Iceland grocery store''called Bónus. It’s the grocery store with an abused cartoon pig, seriously their logo is a pig with a black eye…''There’s a bunch around Reykjavik and one right next to the airport. We also found several along the Ring Road in the major towns so were able to stock up on groceries every two or three days. We’ve gone into detail on''food costs and grocery stores in Iceland in a previous post''.''Where to Sleep?''Our accommodation was covered by our camper van. If you’re driving around in a standard rental car make sure to book your accommodation in advance. High season in Iceland can be intense and it’s easy to end up spending the night in your car!''What To Pack?''Iceland is cold. It may not be like traveling to Antarctica or Greenland, but you should bring along a''packable down jacket''. Other staples items include a good wool sweater, a rain jacket, hiking boots, and a scarf. Of course, if you’re big into photography, make sure to pack a''great travel camera''. If you need more check out our awesome post on''what to pack for Iceland''.''When to go?''We completed this Iceland itinerary in early October and found the weather to be perfect. We had to wear jackets and hats, but we only had a view days of rain and a lot of wild fall colors!''Start here to determine the best time to visit Iceland.''Iceland Ring Road Itinerary''Day 1 – Keflavík > Snæfellsnes Peninsula''You can only cover so much ground on the first day as you have a rental to pick up and groceries. We arrived in Reykjavik Airport early from the''Faroe Islands''a short transfer later we picked up our Happy Campers rental! Before taking off on a Ring Road tour head to the market.''We stopped by Bónus, not knowing when we would come to another grocery store and made our way to the''Snaefellsnes''peninsula. It was referenced as being “Little Iceland,” and one of the best regions to explore.''The drive took about two hours from Reykjavik. For our first night stayed at a campsite near the volcano, Eldborg, and took a hike up the crater. It’s an easy 1.5 hour round trip walk, great for a leg stretch!''Highlights in the area:''Hike up to Eldborg for incredible views!''The campsite we stayed at''Snorrastaðir (2000 ISK per vehicle and included toilets, hot shower, kitchen, and WiFi).''Day 2 – Hellnar, Budakirkja, Kirkjufell, Landbrotalaug''This was an amazing day as we drove the stunning peninsula. We stopped at''Landbrotalaug''a tiny natural hot spring that can fit two-three people. We then ventured on to Búðakirkja, a tiny wooden church that dates back to the 19th century. Around the church, there are multiple hiking paths and a lovely white sand beach.''The next big stop was''Snaeffelsjokull''one Iceland’s major glaciers and setting for “''Journey to Center of Earth''.” It’s a sight to behold! After the glacier, we made our way\xa0to Kirkjufell with plenty of stops along the way.''Although it was the''offseason in Iceland'', Kirkjufell was packed with nowhere to park a vehicle. All visitors are allocated to a tiny parking lot for maybe 20 vehicles in order to get the iconic shot of Kirkjufellsfoss\xa0and Kirkjufell. So, either show up super early in the day or prepare to fight for a parking spot.''Since we couldn’t park our car we went around the corner to an empty side street and decided it was good enough to get a photo! We drove short ways down the road and camped in\xa0Stykkishólmur.''Highlights around the area:''Sunset at Kirkjufellsfoss'',''walk around\xa0Búðakirkja Church, take a dip in Landbrotalaug hot springs,\xa0Snaeffelsjokull (glacier), check out Arnarstapi and Hellnar''The campsite we stayed at''Stykkishólmur Campsite. It was closed for the offseason, but we were still able to park our camper van there with no facilities and did not have to pay.''Day 3 – Stykkishólmur, Hraunfossar, Husafell''Stykkishólmur is situated at the most Northern point of the Snæfellsnes peninsula. It’s a beautiful harbor town that looks the same as it did in the 19th century.''Next stop was\xa0Hraunfossar,\xa0 as with everything we stopped several times along the way for photos and hikes. Which means we\xa0arrived at\xa0Hraunfossar around 5 pm just as the sun was setting.\xa0Out of all the waterfalls we saw in Iceland Hraunfossar was among the most unique.''Husafell makes a great base for exploring the surrounding countryside.\xa0 In the surrounding nature, you can expect to find woodlands, waterfalls, glaciers, rugged lava, crystal springs, wildflowers plus remarkable archaeological remains. We went for a wonderful hike up a nearby mountain.''Highlights of the area:''Take in the views at\xa0Hraunfossar, coffee in Stykkishólmu, Glacier Tour at Langjokull, Surtshellir and Víðgelmir caves.''Where we stayed:''Hotel Husafell''. A high-end hotel, but very nice if you want a beautiful hotel to relax in with great amenities. A budget option is the Husafell Camping Site.''Day 4 – Grabok, Baula, Varmahlíð''After another early morning hike, we made our way to the Grabok Crater. Grabok is a perfectly shaped volcanic crater. There is a small parking lot for hikers and a steady path. The hike is short and takes anywhere from 10-20 minutes.\xa0 Nearby is Baula, a picturesque mountain that is well worth a stop and some photos.''We made our way to Varmahlid where we would be going on a horseback ride adventure in the morning with''Hestasport''. That night we stayed in one of their cute cabins and enjoyed their private hot springs with some sundowner drinks!''Highlights of the area:''Grabok Crater, Buala,\xa0river Svartá''Where to stay:''Hestaport Cottages. Fabulous cottages with a full kitchen and hot spring.\xa0 Budget option:\xa0Varmahlíð (Reykjarhóll) Campsite''Day 5 – Klaengsholl''We spent the morning horseback riding in Skagafjörður (“horse valley”) which is an ideal thing to do if you on a''honeymoon or special trip to Iceland.''Hestaport has one, two, and three-hour rides and runs all year round. The ride was exciting as we got to learn about the Icelandic horse breed and practice a few river crossings via horseback.''We didn’t have a far drive as we went to Northern Iceland to do some hiking around Skíðadalur Valley before retiring for the night.''Highlights of the area:''Hike around\xa0Skíðadalur Valley,\xa0 Check out the town of Dalvík and Akureyri''Where to stay:''Dalvík (Skeið) Campsite''Day 6 – Goðafoss, Lake Mývatn''Up until now, many of the places we visited you may not have heard of. That’s because much of Iceland’s tourism is located in the South. From the Skíðadalur Valley, we drove to Goðafoss. Goðafoss waterfall is one of the most famous in Iceland and well worth a long stop. Goðafoss translates to “The Waterfall of the Gods,” and is an impressive sight to be seen.''Then Icelandic weather got the best of us, it started to pour rain. We hung out in our camper van for a few hours waiting for the rain to settle. This is when we were thankful for our large camper van and WiFi. We were able to catch up on some work emails before setting off to Myvatn.''Highlights of the area:''Definitely see the most powerful waterfall in Iceland,\xa0Dettifoss, walk around Dimmuborgir, admire Lake Mývatn''Where to stay:''Camping Mývatn''Day 7 – Lake Mývatn,\xa0Dimmuborgir, and the East Fjords''We woke up next to Lake Mývatn and admired her beauty.\xa0With the peaks of the Krafla volcano and Mt Hverfjall as nice subjects for photos, we went for a hike around the\xa0Dimmuborgir lava fields before heading to the Hverir\xa0geothermal\xa0area.''This geothermal area here is like another planet. We hadn’t showered in two days since it was off-season and many campsites were closed. Luckily in Egilsstaðir, the capital of the east, we found a local swimming pool for a dip and shower! It was by far the best public swimming pool we visited in Iceland. They had a slide, sauna, lap pool, two hot tubs, and a cold plunge, make sure not to miss the pool!''Highlights of the area:''Borgarfjörður eystri,\xa0Eskifjörður,\xa0Stöðvarfjörður''Where to stay:''Reyðarfjörður Campsite. Toilets and Showers as well as a great camping area. This campsite was closed in mid-October, but we parked here anyway with no facilities.''Day 8 – Eastern Fjord, Skaftafell, Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon''Best day of the trip! We had amazing weather, watched a sunset over a beautiful glacier lagoon, and saw the Northern Lights. The drive around the Eastern Fjords is epic as roads are not crowded. Since it has no big “sights” and it’s far from Reykjavik only a few tourists make it out here. However, it’s spectacular.''We stopped so much that we just got to\xa0Jökulsárlón by sunset, which made for epic photos with a clear pink and blue sky. Right across the street from\xa0Jökulsárlón is Diamond Beach, where you can get up close to the Icebergs!\xa0 With a good Aurora forecast, we parked in front of Skaftafell and watched the sky dance for at least three hours. It was quite late when mother natures show was over so we drove to the next town of\xa0Kirkjubæjarklaustur to camp. It’s a basic campsite next to a\xa0beautiful waterfall called Stjórnarfoss.''Highlights of the area: Catch sunset at''Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon, head to Diamond Beach after, relax in the town of Hofn, hike around Skaftafell''Where to stay?''Kleifar Campsite which was free to park your car at in the offseason. There was a toilet but no other facilities.''Day 9 – Systrafoss,\xa0 Fjaðrárgljúfur, Vik, Reynisdrangar, Skogafoss, Seljavallalaugh''We started our day in Skaftárhreppur in Suðurland area to hike up to Systrafoss. The hike only took about 10 minutes and once at the top, we stayed for 20 minutes. Afterwards, we made our way to\xa0Fjaðrárgljúfur – an iconic canyon in Iceland that is well worth a stop.''Make sure to stop at''Reynisjafara, the famous black sand beach in Iceland''. It’s a wild beach with two massive sea stacks, black sand, and basalt columns.''Seljavallalaug is the oldest pool in Iceland and it’s set in a gorgeous setting. To reach the pool you need to take a short drive down a bad gravel road and then hike 20 minutes. The pool isn’t much for swimming with abandoned changing facilities, chilly water, and poor water circulation. That being said it’s well worth a stop and photo.''The next stop is Skógafoss. It’s one of our favorite waterfalls in the world and just off the main road, you will be able to see it as you drive the Ring Road. Plan to spend some time here taking photos, hiking up its side, and enjoying a coffee at the cafe. There is also a campsite if you don’t want to leave.''Highlights of the area:''Systrafoss,\xa0 Fjaðrárgljúfur, Vik, Reynisdrangar, Skogafoss, Seljavallalaugh,\xa0Solheimasandur Plane Crash,\xa0Seljalandsfoss Waterfall''Where to stay:''Skógafoss waterfall campsite. We couldn’t leave!''Day 10 – The Golden Circle''The Golden Circle''is a 300-kilometer trip that many people do as a day trip since it is close to Reykjavik. The Golden Circle includes Þingvellir National Park, Geysir, and Gullfoss. We recommend you also stop at Kerið crater along the route as well. The Golden Circle is a super popular drive, so expect lots of tourists. Perhaps, this is why so many people choose to go counter-clockwise on the Golden Circle, start off with the hordes of tourists.''We spent the night outside of Reykjavik, in case the Northern Lights were to make an appearance again. We wanted to be away from the light pollution so we went for a dip in a local pool in the town of\xa0Hveragerði and camped overnight there!\xa0The town makes a great stop as it is known as the Hot Spring Capital of Iceland and they have a flowing hot spring river!''Highlights of this area:''The Secret Lagoon,\xa0Bruarhlod,\xa0Skalholt Church, The Golden Circle''Where to stay?''Hveragerði\xa0Campsite. Closes in the winter, but you still may be able to park your vehicle here overnight.''Day 11 – Landmannalaugher and Mount Hekla''We really wanted to get out to Landmannaalguher, which is where they film movies like Oblivion and Prometheus. However, you need a tough 4×4 to get to Landmannaalguher. We returned the van, stayed in Reykjavik and went on a private tour with''Moonwalker Tours''. Bessi our guide picked us up bright and early and we made our way to the middle of Iceland.''We ventured around Landmanalauger in his 4×4 and we were able to soak up the heat in natural hot springs. Afterward, we drove up Mount Hekla, a volcano long overdue for an eruption and had the most fabulous views. Again, this is something we would have either had to hike to or have a 4×4 with local knowledge.''Afterward, we convinced Bessie to take us to Háifoss waterfall.\xa0Háifoss. Háifoss is one of the tallest single drop waterfalls in Iceland and will give you serious vertigo. Right next to it you can find Granni as well! This was one of the best days we had in Iceland and I was pleased that we didn’t see many other people around as it is off the ring road. We were informed that in the summertime it gets crowded with tourists driving off-road in their small cars, which I wouldn’t recommend. Please keep in mind your rental is not insured on F roads (including 4×4) and any driving off of the road is illegal.''Highlights of the area:''Mount Hekla, Landmannalauger, Háifoss and Granni,\xa0\xa0Hjálparfoss,\xa0Lake Frostastadavatn''Day 12 – Reykjavik''Reykjavik is a charming city and well worth exploring. We used''CenterHotel Midgardur''as our base, which is centrally located and one of the more affordable places in Reykjavik. From there we walked around Reykjavik for the day and saw the famous\xa0Hallgrímskirkja''church, enjoyed the sunshine in the Klambratún\xa0Park, and had a fabulous dinner at''Matarkjallarinn''.''Highlights of the capital?''Hallgrímskirkja\xa0church, The Sun Voyager, National Museum of Iceland''Where to stay?''CenterHotel Midgardur''. Centrally located hotel with comfortable rooms. For a budget option,''Kex hoste''l is great.''Watch Our Ring Road Journey''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Iceland''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Get around Iceland:''You should rent a Campervan. If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Accommodation in\xa0Iceland:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home try Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0Iceland:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Iceland amazing to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go''reusable water bottle.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through those wireless nights.''Read Next:''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''A 12 Day Iceland Road Trip Itinerary (Ring Road + Snaefellsnes Peninsula)''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Natasha''If you’re preparing for your trip to Iceland these''Iceland''travel tips are sure to help you along the way. Iceland is one of the most popular destinations in the world right now, and for good reason. It’s an easy connection between Europe and North America and the landscape is natural and surreal.''Iceland’s landscape can be found nowhere else. A mixture of hot springs, glaciers, wet deserts, lava fields, and a dizzying amount of waterfalls make Iceland an adventure destination dream. No matter how you plan to travel around these tips on travel in Iceland are sure to make your trip better!''Iceland Travel Tips''There is no “best time” to go''So, what’s the best time to go to Iceland''? Well, the short answer is it really just depends on what you want. Are you in search of warm (ish) weather and the midnight sun? Or do brisk winter nights, fewer crowds, and the Northern Lights strike your fancy?''When I traveled to Iceland in July I enjoyed partying\xa0under the midnight sun and hiking in a t-shirt. We have also been in October and the fall colors were just simply amazing. To top it off we saw the''Aurora Borealis''for the first time ever. If I were to pick ideal times it would be June, October, and December. Generally, November and March are the months to avoid as they’re in between seasons (cold rain).''Who Needs an ATM?''Never once did we use cash in Iceland. Credit cards are accepted everywhere – even at public bathroom stalls. Of course, it never hurts to have cash on you, but I wouldn’t convert much of it to Icelandic Kroner. If you need''tips for travel banking we have a post''.''We suggest you carry around 5,000 ISK to get out of any unknown situations. Make sure to get yourself a credit card that doesn’t have any foreign transaction fees and provides you travel rewards for using it.''Here are a few of our favorites.''Drive the Ring Road''Iceland’s ring road'', or Route 1, takes you around the entire country – like a ring! It’s one of the best road trips you can take in the world and brings you to some of the best spots in Iceland.''The route took us about 12 days (including time in Reykjavik), but if you are short on time you can do it in 5-7. However, be prepared to spend a lot of time in the car. Along the route, you find the Mývatn Nature Baths, Skógafoss, and the Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon.''We rented a campervan with''Happy Campers''and it was epic!''Or Drive the Golden Circle''If you only have a short amount of time in Iceland but want to get out of Reykjavik (and you should), consider renting a car to drive the Golden Circle. The Golden Circle is a 300-kilometer route looping in and out of the capital.''It’s only a one day drive or tour out of Rejykavik and will take you to some amazing sights. Including''Þingvellir National Park'',''Gullfoss''waterfall,\xa0 and''Geysir''and\xa0Strokkur.\xa0You can also loop in the''Kerið''volcanic crater and the town of\xa0Hveragerði the hot springs capital of Iceland.''Not a driver? Book a Golden Circle tour here!''Ditch the Crowd and Head to Snæfellsnes Peninsula''If you have a few more days in Iceland head to the Snæfellsnes Peninsula. It’s only a two-hour drive from Reykjavik. The Snæfellsnes peninsula has been dubbed “Little Iceland,” because it displays a wide variety of the beauty that can be found throughout Iceland in a compact peninsula.''Waterfalls, cathedral churches, a glacier, and numerous mountains can be found on the peninsula.''Side note:''This is also where you can find Kirkjufell the famous mountain from Game of Thrones. It’s shaped like an arrowhead ;).''Consider Skipping the Blue Lagoon''Since you’re reading our blog I assume you aren’t living under a rock.\xa0 In that same train of logic you’ve heard of the Blue Lagoon. The famous geothermal\xa0spa plays host to over''one million visitors''a year. It is an Instagram fanatics haven, and for a whopping $67 it should be! However, did you know the Blue Lagoon isn’t natural? Or that the water is the runoff of Geo-Thermal power plants? It’s not advertised on their beautiful website, but it’s true!''To me, it seems kinda silly to go to a man-made pool\xa0(and a hella expensive one at that) in Iceland, a country littered with natural geothermal pools. The Blue Lagoon is a tourist trap at it’s finest, and all locals will tell you that. If you’re on a budget then consider going to one of Iceland’s local pools for a swim and a chat with the locals or visit a natural pool. There are even a few around and inside Reykjavik, you can visit. If you don’t mind the price and crave the mud masks and outdoor spa in Iceland then it probably is right up your alley and you’ll like it!''Get Naked!''Speaking of pools, if you go to a public pool you will have to shower before entering. This is a non-negotiable aspect to visiting an Icelandic pool. And you must shower completely naked in an open shower. The Icelandic take their hygiene seriously and don’t want anyone’s dirty bodies infecting their pools. They use minimal water treatment in the natural geothermal water that fills the pools. We don’t disagree with them!''I appreciate knowing that when I am in the swimming pool every single person has showered and scrubbed before entering. Yes, showers are separated by sex so everyone is comfortable. I wouldn’t suggest trying to skip around the naked or shower part as it may get you a few scowls from the locals or you could even get kicked out!''Don’t Eat Out''Iceland is one of the most expensive countries in the world to visit and these costs will hit your wallet hard if you go out to eat. A coffee and bagel in a local cafe will easily run you $18-$20 and the average meal out at a restaurant will cost anywhere from $35-$70. I wouldn’t even consider ordering a cocktail with that meal either – we’ve paid less in''posh Manhattan bars.''The first time I visited Iceland I went out with a few Icelanders to a Thai restaurant expecting to get something reasonable – it was Thai food. Instead, I looked at the menu, decided against paying $30 for pad thai and waited while the others ate their food. Then went to an''Icelandic grocery store''after for some bread and skyr. I was a true backpacker those days!''Talk to the Locals''We found most of the Icelanders to be friendly people so I encourage you to get out and mingle with them. This can be hard as there are only 300,000 of them and 2 million tourists a year. On our recent trip there we found a lot more foreigners than Icelanders and it became hard to be amongst the locals.''If you want to integrate yourself and learn more about Icelandic culture head to the local swimming pools, local pubs, and travel during the off-season when there are fewer tourists.''You’re Safe!''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world! It was the third country I traveled to solo and the very first country I hitchhiked around.''The crime rate is shockingly low'', which makes it an ideal places to travel to for solo female travelers.''However, do not be lulled in by low crime rates because Mother Nature is a bitch. Clueless tourists find themselves in life-threatening situations as many as three to four times a day in the high season. It is usually of their own doing. Iceland’s weather is notoriously unpredictable and life-threatening, especially in the winter.''Always use your head when in the wilderness, tell someone where you’re going, and make sure that you have a cell signal so you can call 112 in you are in unsafe conditions. I suggest checking out''Safe Travel''to stay up to date on weather conditions. Take the waves seriously, like on''Reynisfjara black sand beach'', as a number of tourists have drowned after being swept away.''A Honeymoon Destination?''Many honeymooners will travel to beach destinations like the Bahamas or Hawaii for their special trip, but we found''Iceland to be a wonderful country for a honeymoon''. What sounds better, soaking up the sun on a beach while drinking a pina colada or soaking up the heat in a hot spring after chasing waterfalls in Iceland? Well, I guess both sound pretty nice.''Popular romantic activities include horseback riding, chasing the Aurora, and descending into a volcano. It’s a honeymoon for the active couple who hate tourists traps and sitting still.''Fuel = $$$$''If you plan to rent a car in Iceland note that gas is very expensive.\xa0 It’s an easy expense to forget so make sure to add it to your budget. At about $2/Liter ($8/gallon) I would suggest planning all of your outings accordingly and don’t waste any fuel. (You shouldn’t anyways!) We had a''camper van for 10 days''and spent over''$400''on fuel for our ring road trip. YIKES!''Go Cabin Hopping''Iceland has some of the most charming family-run guesthouses and cottages scattered across the country. If you are driving around the Ring Road be sure to check them out. Compared to hotels they are some of the more affordable accommodation options.''We stayed in one charming guesthouse near Varmahlid, called Hestasport cottages before our an Icelandic horseback riding tour. The cottage was warm, cozy, a full kitchen, and even a communal hot spring to enjoy in the morning or evening. You can find many of these off the beaten path guesthouses on Airbnb.''As a gift to you here is $40 off your first booking with them!''It’s great for off-piste skiing''If you’re into skiing and snowboarding\xa0Iceland has some fun ski resorts near\xa0Reykjavik, Akureyri, and Husavik. January – April is high season for these winter activities. For the truly adventurous you can also go''arctic heliskiing''in the''Skíðadalur Valley''. The mountains of the North are amazingly gorgeous.''Unfortunately, we aren’t pro enough for this type of skiing and we weren’t there in the heart of winter to take part of their heliskiing. However, we did camp out in some of the cabins and enjoy a nice soak in the hot tub.''Bring an eye mask in the summer''If you are visiting Iceland between April and September it will be light out when you are trying to sleep at 11 p.m. This can affect your sleep cycle that may already be out of whack because of jet lag. If your hotel or guesthouse don’t have black out curtains I would suggest packing an''eye mask''in your''carry on luggage.''Even if your hotel has blackout curtains I would still make sure to bring one just in case – they are cheap and light so there is no reason not to!''Pack accordingly!''No matter what time you are visiting Iceland I would pack at least the basic winter essentials. That is a hat,''gloves'', scarf, and''a down jacket''. Trust me, just one cold day with high wind and you will thank me.''Don’t arrive in Iceland unprepared for cold weather as it will cost you dearly to replace your suitcase with winter clothes in Iceland (remember how expensive gas is, now just think about hand knit mittens). The locals say there is no bad weather in Iceland, just bad clothes, and I couldn’t agree more!''Also, make sure to bring a bathing suit and a travel towel for all the geothermal pools!''Here’s a full Iceland packing list.''Bring a Water Bottle''All the water in Iceland is 100% drinkable. Along with the rest of Scandivania, they say it is''some of the cleanest water in the world''so there is no need to buy any bottled water.''Get yourself a''refillable travel water bottle''and save your money and plastic waste.''Rent Your Car From the Airport''If you plan to rent a car or campervan''to get around make sure to pick it up and drop it off at the airport. It could end up saving you a buck. There is no public transport and the Reykjavik Express, one of the only buses from the capital to Keflavik airport is 2400 Icelandic Kroner one way. That’s a $24 airport transfer on a bus! I would recommend picking up and dropping off at the airport.''If you want to rent a camper van like us, a good company to go with is''Happy Campers''. We had a wonderful experience with them.\xa0 If you want to travel with a Happy Campers van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''”''Reykjavik is an Unconventional Capital City''Even though we used to''live in New York City'', we’re not city people anymore. We prefer to be off hiking, on a beach or doing just about anything else not in a busy city. However, Reykjavik is not the usual European city and we enjoyed spending time in the charming city.''There are no high rises and few business suits, just a laid-back atmosphere surrounded by the ocean and mountains. If you only have a few days in Iceland you can base yourself in Reykjavik and take day trips out or catch the local bus to places like Esjan & Glymur.''In my opinion, Reykjavik deserves at least one day of exploration, unless you’re there during one of its epic festivals – then definitely stay longer!''No Waterfall is Created Equal''If you Google “How many waterfalls are in Iceland?” The number 10,000+ comes up. I don’t think anyone truly knows how many waterfalls are in Iceland. The country is littered with waterfalls. They are all wonderful and spectacular. However, there are some notable waterfalls that make for the picture perfect postcard opportunity.''Goðafoss'': Waterfall of the gods in the Northeast''Háifoss'': A bit off the beaten track, but one of the highest in Iceland''Morsárfoss'': Highest waterfall in Iceland''Dettifoss'': The most powerful waterfall in Europe''Gullfoss'': Along the Golden Circle and one of the most popular falls to visit''Seljalandsfoss'': You can stand behind this waterfall''Skógafoss'': Unique waterfall that comes directly from two glaciers''General Tips for all Visitors in Iceland''As we mentioned you should rent a Campervan.\xa0 If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Check here if you’re wondering when is''the best time to visit Iceland!''The local currency is the Icelandic\xa0króna (ISK). ATM’s are\xa0found throughout the country''If you’re doing a backpacking trip through Iceland make sure you have the''proper backpack.''Want to know what’s in the perfect''Iceland packing list?''Icelanders speak Icelandic, but every single person I came across spoke English.''Have I mentioned Iceland is expensive as hell? Well, it is! Save money by eating in and cooking for yourself. Check out our''Iceland grocery store guide''for all the tips!''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world; however, it’s important to use common sense when walking alone at night.''Tipping is not customary in Iceland''.''Iceland has strong Internet\xa0infrastructure''Read More:''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''50 Short Travel Quotes to Inspire You to TRAVEL''Around the World with Instagram: Destinations to Make You Pack Your Bags''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Natasha''Ireland has drawn many tourists from all over the world to its shores for decades. Perhaps, it is the deep ties to many ancestral pasts for so many, Americans in particular. Or perhaps it is the well known friendly locals who create such a welcoming atmosphere. For many visitors to Ireland, it’s their first trip abroad.Ireland is filled with rolling green hills, castles, dramatic coastline, and plenty of sheep. It’s a small country well known for being easy to travel and filled with warm locals. It’s a very safe and easy country to travel to. It’s only natural that visitors may wonder what to pack for Ireland.''The small island cast in the Atlantic has long been known for inclement weather. How else can you explain why the countryside is so green and lush? It also makes it difficult to determine what should go in luggage and what should stay at home. Don’t let any poor weather deter you though, there’s no bad weather in Ireland, just bad clothes.''What’s the weather like in Ireland?''Spring:''The springtime can be one of the best seasons to visit Ireland as temperatures are mild and range from\xa07°C (45°F)\xa0to 13 °C (55°F). It’s a good time to catch some sun, but showers are still frequent. As always you don’t want to be caught without a rain jacket.''Summer:''As should be expected this is the warmest time of year in Ireland. You can expect long summer days as Ireland. Temperatures range on average from\xa012°C (54°F) to\xa019°C (66 °F). It’s always a good idea to have some warm weather clothing for outdoor activities during this time.''Fall:''Autumn weather is probably the most varied time of year in Ireland and can go from mild and sunny to cold and rainy in a matter of hours. On average temperatures range from\xa08°C (46°F) to\xa014°C (57°F).''Winter:''Ireland’s weather doesn’t vary all that much since it’s surrounded by the Atlantic. In the winter time, the average temperature high floats around\xa05°C (41°F) just above freezing. Snow does fall, but it’s mild in most of the low-lying areas of Ireland.''What should you pack for Ireland?''There are a number of staple items that I would recommend everyone bring for their trip to Ireland. The island is well known for being wet so weather will play a large role in what you\xa0throw in your''backpack''or''suitcase''.''Most travelers, ourselves included, will spend their time outside exploring Ireland’s countryside. It’s filled with old walking paths, castles, sheep, and quaint towns. Ireland is a wonderful place to spend your days.''What To Pack For Ireland: Essential Items''Daypack''Exploring the countryside means you’ll often be away from your hotel room. We like to pack a daypack for our car full of things like a camera, phone,''water bottle'', chapstick, and various other essentials.''Camera''Visiting old castles, peering over massive cliff faces, and lively pubs you’ll want a''decent travel camera to capture all the memories''.''Travel Towel''Although we weren’t backpacking Ireland anyone on a''backpacking trip should have a decent travel towel''. Most hostels do not provide these so be sure to stick one in your''backpack for Europe''.''Travel Wallet''We always carry a''nice wallet''in our front pocket or purse that can hold our passport and credit cards. We’re also particular about how we manage finances abroad and recommend you read our''travel banking post to ensure you’re not losing money''.''What To Pack For Ireland: Clothes''Rain Jacket''It should go without saying after all the talk of weather that this is the most important item in your suitcase. You have two options for style of rain jackets. The first one we recommend is a classic''outdoor rain jacket''it is a solid choice for people who spend their time outdoors.''The second option being a''trench coat''for those looking to maintain some style while dodging puddles in Dublin.''Sweater''A sweater is the perfect layer when combined with an outer shell to keep you warm. We purchased wool sweaters from an independent retailers in Scotland, but good ones weren’t easy to find. Ever since then we’ve been living out of them in the''Faroe Islands'',''Iceland''and''Ireland.''The Irish have plenty of sheep but finding an authentic sweater can be difficult without a tourist price tag. For those with less time a little bit of online shopping for wool sweaters will suffice.''Start here!''T-Shirt''A simple base layer like a t-shirt, v neck, or even a thermal is perfect to keep you warm and comfortable. Hiking on a sunny day in the countryside can be quite warm and we found ourselves shedding layers often. Keep it simple when it comes to tees. No one needs a fancy designer tee as a base layer.''Down Sweater''Down sweaters have long been our packing favorites for any cool weather destination. I don’t think we’d ever travel without them. We both love our''Patagonia down sweaters'', one of the''best packable down jackets''on the market.''Hiking Pants''Technical pants like these''are water resistant and dry quickly, not to mention they’re comfortable on long walks. These pants can be pretty ugly, but if you’re serious about exploring the some the small mountains in Ireland I would suggest picking up a pair. Here are some other''great travel pants''for an international trip.''Women’s''|''Men’s''Jeans''Jeans are always in style no matter where you go, and Ireland is not an exception. The Irish, for the most part do not care what you wear, but showing up to the pub in damp outdoor hiking wear is a no go. Bring at least one casual pair of pants. I’m a long time fan of''these classic Levi jeans.''Women’s''|''Men’s''Chinos''If you’re spending time in Dublin I’d suggest you have some clothes that are appropriate for city exploring. A pair of chinos works on both sexes. It’s a classic look that when combined with a sweater that works well in Ireland. I always''pack a pair of these pants''in my bag!''Women’s''|''Men’s''Boots''NEWS FLASH! It’s wet in Ireland and you can expect a lot of boggy weather so packing a pair of good''hiking\xa0boots''for hikes is crucial for protecting your feet. Locals like to wear “Wellies” a UK name brand or rubber boots. We were fine in a decent pair of boots because we stayed off farms.''Women’s''|''Men’s''Sneakers''A comfortable pair of sneakers is a great idea for exploring the cities and towns of Ireland. Ever since we lived in''New York City''we’ve been big on walking around cities. Hitting the sidewalk and letting the city unfurl around you is one of the best ways to get familiar with a new place.''Dress Shoes/Heels''Ireland is, for the most part, an unpretentious affair (we spent the vast majority of our time in hiking boots). If you plan on spending any time in Dublin or a big city you’ll likely want a decent pair of dress shoes or casual shoes. We have a whole post on''women’s travel shoes''for the ladies!''Read Next:''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''My 25 Best Travel Tips From Traveling 60+ Countries in my Twenties''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''Things to do in Northern Ireland on Your Road Trip''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''What To Pack For Ireland • The Perfect Ireland Packing List''was last modified:''April 8th, 2018''by''Cameron''The Golden Circle in Iceland is the most popular day trip in Iceland from the tourist hub of Reykjavik. It’s a 230km route that features some of Iceland’s most stunning natural landmarks that are all on a days drive. Most tourists opt for a bus tour, but we suggest picking up a vehicle and driving the Golden Circle yourself!''Not everyone can take''10 days in Iceland to drive around the Ring Road''. So, taking a small rental car or renting a campervan for a few days for the Golden Circle and Southern Iceland is a great alternative.''We’re avid self-drivers having done the''North Coast 500'',''Faroe Islands'',''Northern Ireland'', and''Overlanding across Africa''because we love the freedom that our own car affords us. Having this freedom means you are not rushed from one car to the next while on the Golden Circle and have time to enjoy yourselves.''If you plan on driving the Golden Circle yourself or even if you plan on''taking a tour this guide''will be sure to help you out!''Iceland’s Golden Circle Route''Þingvellir National Park''The first stop on the Golden Circle is Iceland’s first National Park,\xa0Þingvellir. Not only is it the first national park, but it’s also the location of Iceland’s first Parliament, started back in 930 AD. Back then an assembly of 48 chieftains would gather to discuss Viking law and hold court. It’s regarded as the founding of Iceland as a nation and historically important to Icelanders.''Most notably this is also where the Eurasian and North American plates are slowly splitting apart. The drifting continents have created deep fissures and volcanic activity. One of the fissures\xa0is famous as it is filled with shimmering glacier water. For an incredible day out, tourists can put on wetsuits and brave the glacier water for an out of this world diving and snorkeling experience between two continents.''Þingvellir''is located 40km NE of Reykjavik and takes about 40 minutes from the city center. The countryside is wonderfully filled with farms, mountains, and valleys. Once, you arrive you will have to pay for parking, however, it’s well worth the small fee.''Geysir Hot Spring Area''After\xa0Þingvellir you head to the Geysir Hot Spring Area, a geothermal area roughly 60km to the East. You can view two famous geysers in the area, Geysir, and Strokkur. After an earthquake, the original Geysir no longer erupts, but it’s neighbor Strokkur erupts at regular intervals.''There is an impressive gift shop/cafe that’s perfect for a pit stop. Just be prepared for Icelandic prices as a sandwich and drink will set you back almost $20. We drove the''Golden Circle in our camper van''so we cooked lunch off the road away from crowds. We recommend packing a picnic lunch either way.''Gullfoss Waterfall''This is one of the most spectacular waterfalls in Iceland. It’s a mesmerizing sight to watch the Hvítá River drop down a deep ravine. It’s an amazing sight that is one of Iceland’s most popular attractions.\xa0\xa0Make sure to bring a''camera''and''rain jacket''as the waterfalls produce a thick mist and frequent rainbows.''The waterfall is accessed from a large parking lot with a pathway and steps that allow for visitors to walk along the edge of the mighty waterfall. To stand at the edge of Gullfoss waterfall is a wet and amazing experience.\xa0 Once you finish up at Gullfoss you need to backtrack a bit to head on to the Golden Circle.''Kerið Crater Lake''The''Kerid Crater''is a worthy stop on the Golden Circle that not everyone makes. It’s a former cone Volcano that has since collapsed. It’s also the only stop on the Golden Circle that does charge an entrance fee. However, it’s not much at 400 ISK or $3.50 USD.''The bottom of the volcanic crater is a deep sapphire blue that is a sharp contrast to the red rock of the crater. It’s a marvelous sight along the Golden Circle. It’s also quick as it only takes a five-minute climb.''Hveragerði –\xa0Sundlaugin Laugarskarði''Most people pass right through this town on their way back to Reykjavik. However, we suggest making the stop and heading to one of Iceland’s historic pools. Unlike the tourist traps of''Secret Lagoon''and''Laugarvatn Fontana''the swimming pool in\xa0Hveragerði an authentic Icelandic experience.''The pool is one of the first its\xa0kind constructed in Iceland. It’s entirely fed by geothermal water and features a 50m Olympic length outdoor pool, along with a diving board, steam room, hot tub, and cold tub. It’s also a place in Iceland where locals and tourists truly intermix. Before you head to a pool in Iceland we recommend you''read up on the etiquette here''. Icelandic pools typically charge between 600 ISK-900 ISK for a dip. This doesn’t include a towel, so make sure to''pack a travel towel''that folds up well.''For those with plenty of time in the summer months, you can also take a 45-minute walk out of town to find the Reykjadalur hot spring thermal river. Free hot spring! No need to pay for $45 to hang out in a crowded hot tub with other tourists sweaty bodies. Rivers are moving water, lagoons are stagnant…''Not a driver? Book a Golden Circle tour here!''Golden Circle Tips''How long does it take to drive the Golden Circle?''It takes just under three hours to drive the Golden Circle. So, a reasonable amount of time would be about five hours with stops, or you could spend the whole day along the route. We spent the night along the route in our''Happy Campers’ camper van''.''If you’re not on a Golden Circle tour you have a lot of flexibility with time. There is a plethora of detours and Icelandic horses to be pet!''During''the summer months'', it’s easy to do it any time of day. You could even leave 10:00 p.m. chasing the midnight sun. Either way, we suggest going early or late in the day to avoid peak crowds at midday.''Driving in Iceland''If you’re visiting Iceland outside of the winter months driving the Golden Circle you’ll have no problems. However, come winter time the roads are icy and caution should be taken. If you’re interested in the weather and''about the best time to visit Iceland we have a post.''To stay up to date on road conditions check out''Vegagerdin''run by Iceland’s road authority.''When driving the ring road we suggest you download an offline Google Map and save the points of interest along the route. That will make driving between stops painless. It really is easy as there isn’t much traffic once you leave Reykjavik.''Be warned car rentals are not cheap in Iceland and gas is just as expensive. When we drove the Golden Circle has was around $2 a liter or $8 a gallon. You do not need a 4×4 vehicle to drive the Golden Circle.''Car rental insurance does not cover F-roads. We opted for a tour with''Moonwalker''to explore Landmannalaugar; however, we still saw many tourists off road in their vehicles. We would not recommend this unless you’re specifically renting from a specialized 4×4 company who is aware of your travel plans.''General Tips for all Visitors in Iceland''You should rent a Campervan.\xa0 If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Check here if you’re wondering when is''the best time to visit Iceland!''The local currency is the Icelandic\xa0króna (ISK). ATM’s are\xa0found throughout the country''If you’re doing a backpacking trip through Iceland make sure you have the''proper backpack.''Want to know what’s on the perfect''Iceland packing list?''Icelanders speak Icelandic, but every single person I came across spoke English.''Have I mentioned Iceland is expensive as hell? Well, it is! Save money by eating in and cooking for yourself. Check out our''Iceland grocery store guide''for all the tips!''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world; however, it’s important to use common sense when walking alone at night.''A''honeymoon in Iceland''is a fantastic idea – more people are dropping the idea of a lazy beach holiday with a bunch of other tourists in Mexico.''The water is delicious in Iceland, but in case you are still feeling funny get a''water bottle that allows you to drink any water safely.''Tipping is not customary in Iceland''.''Check out our other favorite places!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Iceland''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partner’s below''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance and World Nomads offers great prices and coverage.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through those wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Remember that Iceland uses the''Europlug.''You May Also Like:''What to Pack for Iceland All Year Round''How Much Does Backpacking Europe Cost?''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Happy Campers Review: The Best Camper Van Company in Iceland? (+Coupon!)''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''How To Drive The Golden Circle in Iceland Yourself''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''Reynisfjara is a volcanic black sand beach on the South Coast of''Iceland''. It is one of the most scenic spots in a country famed for its natural beauty.''We’ve been to a lot of beaches in the world, but you probably wouldn’t believe us if we told you one of the best is in Iceland. The beach has massive basalt stacks, a wild Atlantic ocean, and stunning landscape. This black sand beach in Iceland is one of the most beautiful we’ve ever seen.''Reynisfjara is 180km from Reykjavik\xa0– or a two and half hour drive. It’s easy to access via car and many tourists choose to add it to their tour of Southern Iceland or stop along the''Ring Road''. We made the stop as part of''ring road tour in a camper van''and found the beach to be more than we had hoped for!''Reynisfjara Black Sand Beach is Lava!''Okay, it’s not exactly the sand as it’s more of a mix of small black stones. These stones were created when lava collided with the Atlantic Ocean. It’s a really stunning place on earth and each stone is cold, smooth, and has a shine to it. Sunsets on\xa0Reynisfjara are also out of this world as the black sand twinkles in the warm light.''In the nearby cave, Hálsanefshellir.''There is a cave nearby''Hálsanefshellir is a basalt cave nearby. You’ll find it right behind\xa0Reynisfjell. It’s really cool and unreal so naturally, I had to go take a photo in it. However after Googling it later, I found out this cave''actually collapsed in 2013,''thankfully no one was inside or hurt. Also be aware of when you are going in because you won’t want to be caught in the cave at high tide. Always be aware of your surroundings and the danger you can put yourself in here!''It’s not the only black sand beach in Iceland!''Reynisfjara is not the only black sand beach in Iceland. We personally visited three on the route around the Ring Road. This is simply the most popular because it is accessible and features Reynisfjell, a mountain with a base of hexagonal basalt rocks.''Other notable black sand beaches in Iceland are Diamond Beach,\xa0Djúpalónssandur, and\xa0Héraðssandar.''There are beautiful Basalt Rocks''The basalt rock columns are a totally unique natural feature that has to be seen to be believed. The 340-meter mountain with the hexagonal-shaped basalt columns is referred to as\xa0Reynisfjell,''try not to confuse that with\xa0Reynisfjara (Beach),\xa0Reynisdrangar (sea stacks), or Reynishverfi (neighboring village).''We’ve seen only seen these columns like these at''Giant’s Causeway in Northern Ireland''and they are amazing! Unlike the Giant’s Causeway, it is possible to get some headspace from other tourists if you take a stroll down the massive black sand beach to the West. If you’re going to climb the basalt rocks make sure that you can get down from where you are and don’t climb up when it’s puffin seasons. Puffins routinely nest on these rocks and one step on their egg would make for a sad day''Don’t forget to stroll to Eagle Rock''If you take a long enough stroll you’ll come to find another high lava rock referred to as\xa0Arnardrangur. The name comes from 1850 when eagles roosted there.''Arnardrangur''meaning Eagle Rock in Iceland.''It’s a stunning natural feature well worth the walk. If you’re into photographs the rock also gives great perspective to the rest of the beach and landscape.''Read about Reynisfjara Folklore''Once you get over the color of the black sand beach and the rocky shoreline your focus will shift to the sea stacks jutting out of the ocean. The sea stacks are known as\xa0Reynisdrangar and they’re roughly 66m tall.''It is said that the two sea stacks were once trolls attempting to a snatch a large ship from the ocean. However, to their misfortune dawn arose too quickly and the trolls turned into stone. If that sounds familiar to The Hobbit, it’s because the author JRR Tolkien studied Icelandic folklore and language, using much of it in his novels.''The trolls now serve as home to thousands of nesting seabirds. In the right season, you can find fulmars, guillemots, and even puffins! Make sure to''pack your camera''if you’re a bird watcher!''There’s No Lifeguard!''Everyone needs to be aware of the surroundings on the''beach as it very is dangerous.''As the beach increases in popularity so has the number of fatalities. The Atlantic Ocean here looks wild because it is. I’m not exaggerating when I say this.''These are the most powerful waves I have ever seen.''Many visitors have been swept off their feet by''Rogue Waves''and dragged out to sea, most never to be seen again.''We spoke with a guide who has rescued a number of tourists at the beach and said that there only moments to catch someone in between waves if they get swept away. There is no chance of swimming in the strong currents along the beach so any rescue is likely to be a suicide mission. So not only are you putting your life in danger but your rescuers also. Never turn your back on the waves and make sure to mind children at Reynisfjara Beach.''We saw a lot of people attempting to get their photos with the waves in the background, and it’s simply not worth it. We see this behavior all over the world and it’s still something we do not understand. Don’t underestimate the ocean, especially here.''Tips For Visiting\xa0Reynisfjara Beach''There is a small cafe and free parking lot for visitors. However, the cafe is expensive so if you think you’re going to get a hungry stop at an''Iceland grocery store first.''Restrooms are located here, but they either charge money or require being a cafe customer.''Make sure to''pack a down jacket''as it very cold and windy on the beach.''Your''bag for Iceland''should have a pair of''decent walking shoes''.''Arrive either early in the morning or late in the evening to avoid crowds and tour buses and to get some killer sunset and sunrise shots!''How To Get To Black Sand Beach''Driving to Reynisfjara Black Sand Beach is super easy as it’s only a 2.5-hour drive from Reykjavik along the''Ring Road''. We’d suggest downloading an offline map and using your GPS. However, there is plenty of signage so you won’t miss the turn.''You pass several interesting stops along the road including the waterfalls of Skógafoss and\xa0Seljalandsfoss. They’re both stunning waterfalls and well worth the stop.''Don’t miss Seljavallalaug nearby!\xa0 It’s the oldest pool In Iceland''Speaking of lifeguards not far from Iceland’s famous black sand beach lies the oldest pool in the country. The pool was constructed in 1927 and it’s set in a beautiful valley. It’s a 20-minute hike from a rugged car park to reach the pool.''However, don’t expect a nice warm pool as it’s been neglected and the water is barely warm with a thick layer of algae on the edges. Come for the photos, not for a relaxing experience!''Consider a South Iceland tour''If you’re limited on time or don’t like driving in foreign countries there is a popular tour operated outside of Reykjavik that goes to the black sand beach. Some tours run over the course of several days including meals and accommodation. For people who do not like the stress of traveling independently, it’s a great option. The multi-day tours often combine Jökulsárlón and Diamond Beach as well!''Book Your Tour Here!''General Tips for traveling Iceland''You should rent a Campervan.\xa0 If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Check here if you’re wondering when is''the best time to visit Iceland!''The local currency is the Icelandic\xa0króna (ISK). ATM’s are\xa0found throughout the country''If you’re doing a backpacking trip through Iceland make sure you have the''proper backpack.''Want to know what’s in the perfect''Iceland packing list?''Icelanders speak Icelandic, but every single person I came across spoke English.''Have I mentioned Iceland is expensive as hell? Well, it is! Save money by eating in and cooking for yourself. Check out our''Iceland grocery store guide''for all the tips!''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world; however, it’s important to use common sense when walking alone at night.''The water is delicious in Iceland, but in case you are still feeling funny get a''waterbottle that allows you to drink any water safely.''Tipping is not customary in Iceland''.''Iceland has strong internet\xa0infrastructure, and we were able to stay connected every day.''Check out our Iceland road trip!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''What to Pack for Iceland All Year Round''How Much Does Backpacking Europe Cost?''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Happy Campers Review: The Best Camper Van Company in Iceland? (+Coupon!)''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Reynisfjara Black Sand Beach in Iceland • All You Need to Know''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''With two weeks in Italy, how do you maximize your time? We can’t all travel the world indefinitely and spend an endless amount of time on holiday in Italy. When it comes to any Italian itinerary there is no perfect plan and each person has their own set of interests.''Italy is the one country that we have repeatedly returned to. This next winter will make it our fifth time touring around Italy! There is something about the culture, history, and food that warrants deep exploration. If it’s your first time in the country you’ll want to hit all the main tourist destinations such as Venice, Florence, and Rome.''We would suggest stepping a bit off the simple route and I’ve suggested a number of smaller towns that are well worth the trip. The way we plan trips is to pick the destinations we find of interest and go from there. You won’t hit everything here in just a two week trip to Italy, but hopefully, it inspires you to return! This guide has a number of must-see places in Italy and you can pick what you like for your trip.''Italy''A Two Week Italy Itinerary''Venice''Love or hate Venice there is no denying its popularity. It may be one of the most beautiful historic cities on the planet, but it is also besieged by tourists with a crumbling infrastructure. The sinking city is a network of 118 islands connected by bridges. Buildings here are old and if you manage to get away from the crowds it feels as if you’ve stepped back five centuries.''It is surreal and we do have a love for Venice.''In our opinion, Venice is best in the shoulder and off seasons. The canals of Venice are notorious for harboring a lot of waste and in the summer the smell can get pretty bad; however, in the cooler months there are fewer tourists, less waste, and the smell is at bay. If you were to ask us Venice is a must see place in Italy, except in the summer months.''What to do in Venice?''Piazza San Marco''This is one of the focal points in the city and the main square. It’s likely you’ve seen countless photos of this iconic square lined by cafes, shops, and museums. You can also sip a cafe at''Cafe Florien''which claims to be the oldest cafe in the world.''The Grand Canal''The central artery to the city and often packed with boats. It has some beautiful buildings along the canal and it’s one of the most famous views in all of Venice.''Ca’ Macana''Mask shops pretty much rule the streets of Venice, but most of these are cheap imports marketing to tourist.''Ca’Macana''is a fabulous genuine mask shop in Venice that actually makes all their own products. You can even find masks used in Stanley Kubrick’s''Eyes Wide Shut'', as the shop produced the masks for the film. The shop owners do allow for you to play dress up and have some fun!''Spritz & Cicchetti''Enjoying an afternoon of spritz and\xa0Cicchetti is a must in Venice. A\xa0Spritz Veneziano is an aperitif in Northeast Italy and\xa0Cicchetti are bite-sized entrees similar to tapas often on a slice of bread. Our favorite Spritz is at\xa0Bacareto Da Lele for a cool''€1.50''and it’s right around the corner from Osteria Al Squero, an excellent spot for Cicchetti. There’s little to no seating room so come prepared to stand and relax along the canal.''Milan''Milan (Milano) is the fashion capital of the world and is home to greats like Prada,\xa0Valentino, Versace, and Dolce & Gabbana. However, the vast majority of tourists do not shop for these clothing brands and isn’t a reason to go unless you’re into high-class fashion. However, Milan does pack a fair amount of sights, museums, and restaurants worth visiting.''It’s a city that full of style and known for being posh. This means hip bars, well-dressed locals, and plenty of great places to eat. The city also serves as a great base if you want to explore the Southern Italian Alps and famous lakes like Como and Garda.''That being said it’s our least favorite city in Italy and easy to give a skip with only two weeks in Italy or limited time.''What to do in Milan?''Santa Maria Delle Grazie''The historic church is a fabulous piece of architecture, but it is most famous for what is inside. The church houses one of Leonardo da Vinci’s last paintings, The Last Supper. If you’re traveling in the summer months be sure to''book your tickets in advance''.''Teatro alla Scala''We are fans of opera and ballet so enjoying a show at the Teatro la Scala was a must in our lifetimes. It’s famed for being one of the best theaters in the world and has some of the best talents in the world. Just be warned tickets are expensive.''Duomo of Milan''It’s the largest cathedral in the world. The foundation was laid in 1386 and it took nearly 500 years to complete the herculean task. It’s an architectural wonder and a sight to be seen in Italy and the world.''Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II''The famous galleria is a shopping arcade that links the Duomo Square with Teatro Alla Scala. The massive glass roof is mind-boggling and the tiles of the interior are gorgeous. I wouldn’t plan on too much shopping as the galleria houses high-end brands.''Florence''Florence (Firenze) is the capital of Tuscany and a highlight of any tour of Italy. You have to add this city to your Italy itinerary if it’s not already. The city is famous for its world-class cuisine, museums, works of art, and surrounding countryside. The architecture in Florence pulls you in and begs for you to get lost in its historic heart.''Florence is known for being the birthplace of the Renaissance period and packed full of history. When you walk the narrow cobbled stone streets it appears as if little has changed with marble basilicas, dark chapels, gas lanterns, and enchanting frescos.''What to do Florence?''Duomo –\xa0 Santa Maria del Fiore''It’s the most beautiful cathedral in Italy. The size and scale of the interior along with the frescos housed inside will humble anyone. It is breathtaking with it’s white, pink, and green marble exterior. We love that despite being world famous the Duomo remains free to the public.''Mercato Centrale''If you’re looking to eat head to the''Mercato Centrale''. You can get some fantastic bites to eat with counters and a few tables. The energy only adds to the environment and the beautiful food products of Tuscany are on full display.''Pont Vecchio''This was the first bridge to cross the Arno River in 1348. It’s been standing ever since that day and is lined with shops and buildings. Make sure to catch it from the riverside and to cross over the bridge on foot.''All’Antico Vinaio''Grabbing a panini from this famous sandwich shop is a must in Italy.''All’ Antico Vinaio''has even been named one of the best sandwiches in the world. The original shop is only a storefront and you’ll have to enjoy a cheap glass of wine and sandwich along the street. It’s a cheap eat that won’t disappoint anyone.''Tuscany''There is hardly a more famed region in Italy than the rolling hills of the Tuscan countryside. It’s well worth adding the region to your Italy itinerary. You can take day trips from Florence or stay in any one of numerous towns.''The region is geographically diverse with beautiful beaches and islands, rolling hills, and the Apennine Mountains. You can find some Italy’s best products such as beautiful wines, olives, mushrooms, cheese, legumes, and bread. There are whole trips spent in Tuscany and for good reason.''Where to go in Tuscany?''Siena''It’s only a two-hour train ride from Florence and it’s everything you can hope for in a Tuscan town. This is the Italy romanticized in countless movies and books. It’s packed full of medieval buildings and offers the Italian countryside at its doorstep.''Pisa''Be warned Pisa is underwhelming. Many visitors feel the draw to come here for its famed tower. In our opinion, the most entertaining part of a stop in Pisa is watching tourist air five and pretend to hold the 180 ft bell tower. Pisa is walkable and offers a great place to grab a gelato and sit by the Arno River.\xa0However, it’s not the prettiest city.''Lucca''This is the walled Renaissance city and where I suggest heading instead of Pisa if you’re short on time. It’s full of cobblestoned streets, lovely piazzas and street side cafes. Take a day to stroll along the city ramparts and hop from one cafe to the next.''Cinque Terra''It’s not technically in Tuscany, but it’s an easy day trip from Tuscany. It’s a photogenic collection of five towns that are on almost every travelers Italy must-see list. The five towns are accessible by train from La Spezia. The towns are colorful and perched along a series of cliffs. There is a trail that connects the five towns and it’s summer time favorite to hike, be prepared for some steep descents and ascents. If the hike is too much all the towns are accessible by train or boat.''Umbria''The capital of Umbria does not make enough travelers lists. However, it is well worth a stop. The region is full of fantastic food and wine just like Tuscany and was long known to tourists as Tuscany’s little sister. It has amazing hill top towns, fantastic food, and half the tourists.''It’s known as the Green Heart of Italy because of the amazing countryside. To make it all better the sights are easy to explore and only require a few days to see. It also saves you a long train ride from Florence to Rome, making a nice stop in between.''Where to go in Umbria?''Perugia''This is the capital of Umbria, but it’s a manageable hill top city. The historic city is loaded with historic site and building and makes for a fun day exploring. The city center is a maze of steps, cobbled alleys, and arched stairways. At its heart, you’ll find a number of large piazzas and mansions.''Assisi''Home of St Frances, the patron saint of Italy, and a site of pilgrimage for Italians. It’s one of the most beautiful hilltop towns in Italy with Mount Subasio rising above the town with wooded valleys. As the towns cobble stone streets ascend to the Cathedral or “heaven” you’ll pass along the well-preserved building and hear the clatter of footsteps from nuns and pilgrims.''Orvieto''You’ll be hard-pressed to find a town more beautiful than the hill topped Orvieto. As you approach the city it is breath taking and the cathedral is out of this world. As with all towns in the region expect cobbled lanes, large piazzas, churches and lots of history. There is just not enough time in any two-week itinerary to explore all Italy has to offer. Not even a month would suffice!''Rome''All roads lead to Rome. It is the beating heart of Italy and a city that begs to be explored again, and again, and maybe one more time. It’s known as the Eternal City and one of the most romanticized cities in the world. History haunts its every corner and it is littered with historic site spanning several millennia. There is no city on earth like Rome.''Rome has amassed great wealth over the years as the seat of power of the Catholic church the result is stunning architecture. Vatican City is unparalleled in its beauty and scale. We are not big city people or into museums and churches, but the Vatican will humble you.''Where Rome truly shines is the ability for a tourist to get lost and immerse themselves. Just pick a direction and keep walking. It’s not always about ticking off the sights or old buildings. Stop and enjoy''un\xa0caffè'', here’s''our guide to coffee in Italy''.''What to do in Rome?''Trevi Fountain''We all know the saying that if you a coin in the Trevi Fountain you’re destined to return. Well, we’ve done that and we’ve been back… four times. Until next time Roma!''Vatican City''Prepare to spend a half day or more in the Vatican City. Depending on lines it could take you awhile to enter St Peter’s Basilica, especially in the summer. Once inside you’ll want to take the time to appreciate your surroundings. \xa0Bring a shawl to cover your shoulders here, this is also where you will get to admire the Sistine Chapel. If you want to avoid lines it does help to buy tickets in advance.''Tickets to Vatican Museum and Sistine Chapel''Explore Trastevere''Cross the Tiber river to Trastevere. The bohemian and hip neighborhood long known for its working-class roots and unique vibe. Rome is constantly reinventing itself, for example, you check out a great beer bar at''Ma Che Siete Venuti A Fà''. Relax have a beer, watch a football match, and mingle with locals and expats.''Roman Forum & Colosseum''Exploring the Colosseum and Roman Forum will also tie up at least a half of your day. The good news is they are close to the subway station and they are also right next to each other. \xa0These should not be missed!''Embrace Aperitivo''At the end of the day Romans meet for''aperitivo,''it’s essentially the Italian happy hour. Any decent bar supplies food that can range from simple snacks to full-on buffets or beautiful Italian food products.''Knights of Malta''An out of the way literal keyhole to the city. \xa0High on the hills, you can look through a small keyhole, that overlooks peaceful gardens and an outstanding view of St Peter’s Basilica. \xa0If you have extra time this is a sight worth going to. \xa0Visit later in the day for more peace and quiet.''Naples''This city is the opposite of Milan, you either love it or hate it. It’s gritty, it’s loud, it’s in your face, and it is Italian. The electricity in the narrow streets of Naples can not be beaten. Not to mention the city is packed with history, architectural treasures, palaces, castles, art, beaches, and churches.''Did I mention that the city also has some of the best food in all of Italy? Producing the world’s best pizza, pasta, and coffee, seafood, snacks and sweets, Naples has it all. All while being surrounded by a fertile countryside, a plentiful sea, and culinary attitude.''Naples is our favorite city in Italy and for good reason. Forget the hype about crime and dirty streets and learn to embrace it. Naples’ flaws are what make it unique and exhilarating.''What to do in Naples?''Gino Sorbillo''If Naples has the best pizza in the world and Gino Sorbillo has the best pizza in Naples then you could say the best pizza can be found at Gino Sorbillo. Expect a massive crowd around the pizza joint and crazy long waits for a table. However, there is one trick, push through the throngs of people, walk up to the hostess, and order your pie take away. Even with two hour plus waits you can get a pizza in less than five minutes. The best part is it’s €3.50 for a Margherita pizza.''Cafe Culture''Coffee is a serious affair to Neapolitans. You can’t walk down a street in Naples that doesn’t have a cafe bar. A coffee shop in Italy is no Starbucks, it’s standing room only and the drinks are made to be drunk immediately, leave the''travel laptop''in the hotel room. If you’re looking for a charismatic bar check our''Bar Mexico''.''Castel Nuovo''It’s a focal point of the city and close to the famous Piazza del\xa0Plebiscito. The castle dates back to 1282 and offers amazing views of the harbor from its ramparts.''National Archaeological Museum''We’re not museum people, but this museum boasts an impressive amount of ruins.''Train Travel in Italy''Traveling around Italy by train is the easiest and best way to maximize your time in the country. Every destination on this list is connected via train and they’re all easily accessible. If you’re looking to save some money you can also travel via bus.''There are two train companies in Italy.''Trenitalia''is largely based in the North and their trains are generally nicer and more expensive. NTV Italo is more wide spread towards the South and they are generally cheaper than Trenitalia.''If you link all of the cities in the post you should have to take a train no longer than a couple hours, with only a handful of changes if any.''If you want more information on train travel in Italy''Seat 61''is an excellent guide.''Where to spend your time?''Now the question remains when and where do you spend your time.\xa0 Each region or city generally warrants a few days''There is so much more!''I hope this guide helped you out. It’s a general post that covers many of the main sights and cities. We have to stress there is so much more to Italy that is not on this starter list. We particularly love Sorrento, the Amalfi Coast, and Sicily in Southern Italy!''Read Next:''15 Things to Know Before Going To Italy''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''What to Pack for Scotland • Don’t Forget This Stuff''What to Wear in Italy All Year Round''The Best Hotels in Italy: Lake Como, Venice, Florence, Rome & More''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''was last modified:''March 19th, 2018''by''Natasha''It’s tough to nail the best travel gift for that intrepid explorer in your life. They’re always on the go and live that “minimalist lifestyle.” We’re always on the go so we know what’s a bust and what will be the perfect gift for any traveler.''These travel gifts are about making life easier while crossing the globe. With limited space in luggage we can’t afford to waste space with unnecessary items. That’s the key to finding the perfect travel gift, finding an item that makes travel easier.''Here are our top gift for people who love travel. Every single one of these products mentioned are products that one of us have had or currrently ahs. We can attest for their durability. Also every single one of these products mentioned are items we have paid for ourselves. This post is not sponsored and we weren’t influenced to write could things about anything mentioned – we just really do love these products and would pay for them a 1000 times over!''Table Of Contents:''Best Travel Gifts For Every Traveler''Travel Gifts For Women''Best Travel Gifts For Men''Electronic Travel Gifts''Best Travel Gifts For Everyone''Lifestraw Go – Filtered Water Bottle''We traveled with this water bottle for two years, including a year in Africa. If you’ve been following our blog for a while there is no doubt you’ve seen it sneakily hidden away in countless photos or on the sides of our''backpacks''. The only reason they aren’t in our packs now is because we gave them away to people who truly needed it.''We love the design of the water bottle and have been proponents of it on our site for a while now. The bottle can hold 850ml and filters the water through a filter straw. With two years of use, I have never been sick from bad water when using this water bottle, even after using it around Namibia, Malawi, and Zimbabwe.''There are two design flaws that we’ve noticed. The top of the bottle leaks when not directly upright and we would love it much better if the bottle wasn’t plastic. However, we’ve since found several alternatives that don’t do that and detailed them in''our post about the best travel water bottles''.''Buy The Gift Here''A Packable Down Jacket''Unless we’re on a beach holiday we always carry our down jackets in our bags. Down jackets are well known for being compact and providing plenty of warmth. We’ve tried several different types of down jackets out, but we’ve stuck with our''Patagonia Down Sweaters''for a while now.''They’re easily one of the best on the market, but we share more in our post about the''best down packable jackets''. This gift does come with a higher price tag so just make sure you''really''like the person before dropping $200 on a wonderful jacket. Or you could buy yourself a Christmas gift! [''Men’s Version''] [''Women’s Version'']''Buy The Gift Here''Trtl Travel Pillow''The''Trtl\xa0Pillow''acts more of like a “wrap” or a scarf than the other pillows on this list. The great thing about the Trtl wrap is that it’s small and compact but still, supports your head on both sides.''The Trtl prides itself on being able to attach to other luggage, and it can fit inside a purse of carry-on bag. We love this pillow so much we gave it the''top notch as our best travel pillow''. It’s pretty innovative design and make a great gift to replace that old U shaped pillow your traveler has been using for years. Or you could always buy them a''croissant pillow''…''Buy The Gift Here''Packing Cubes''This is a staple for many travelers and something we recommend most people pack in their suitcase. Packing cubes allow easy organization of luggage and will surely be appreciated by any frequent flyer.''We’ve''outlined the best packing cubes''previously, but our favorite brand still remains''Eagle Creek packing cubes''. They’re some of the nicest on the market constructed with nylon. The synthetic material means they can compress your clothing and resist stains. They’re sure to be a hit with any traveler who does not have a set yet, or needs a new one.''Buy The Gift Here''Passport Travel Wallet''An organized passport holder is like a breath of fresh air. It keeps all your documents, dollars, itineraries, and''rewards credit cards''in one place.''It’s one of our key steps to''how we bank and protect our money while traveling.''We recommend the''Herschel Passport Holder''with RFID protection. It’s a great travel wallet, but if you’re look for more check out our''post on the best passport wallets''.''Buy The Gift Here''Best Travel Gifts For Women''Toiletry Bag''Many women love to travel with an array of make up. Without proper organization their bag can quickly descend into chaos. Life is much easier for travelers when it organized.''We’ve''gone in depth about our the best toiletry bags'', but a cute bag for women we recommend is the Yeiotsy c''osmetic bag''.''This bag has a stylish design''and plenty of features to help keep your toiletries organized.''Buy The Gift Here''Security Door Stop Alarm''This is for all the solo female travelers out there, or men. It’s a security door stop. The''GE Security Door Stop''is easy to set up and can be placed under the door before going to sleep. If someone tries to enter your room in the night the device will stop the door from opening and let our a loud alarm. A 120 db alarm will be sure to wake you and everyone else up.''We like to take the approach of it’s always best to be prepared rather than sorry. However, everything that we’ve come to find in this world is that it is far safer than the news makes it seem. Parents you can give your intrepid traveler a gift that will help you and them sleep better at night!''Buy The Gift Here''Portable Jewelry Box''A''portable jewelry box''his is a staple of Natasha’s packing list. It’s a great travel gift as it’s something that is easily over looked until it’s too late. It’s easy to break necklace chains or loose earrings in your''suitcase''or''backpack''. Before she has this she was storing all her necklaces and earrings in a plastic bag and always untangling them. An easy design with a few compartments will you keep jewelry organized and stored safely.''Buy The Gift Here''Travel Straightener''Crossing the globe means that often you’ll find appliances do not work due to changing voltages. So, despite packing a bulky hair straightener it may not work abroad. One of the best travel gifts for those who always love to keep their''hair done is a travel straightener''.\xa0\xa0The key to buying the right straightening iron or appliance is that has the capacity for dual currents from 100v up to 240v.''Buy The Gift Here''Lush Cosmetics''As we get older we’re slowly becoming hippies. We love using Lush products as they do not use hard chemicals, test products on animals, and offer a plethora of organic products. They have an awesome company ethos and we’ve never walked into one of their stores and been met with a frowning face.\xa0Of particular use to travelers are their shampoo bars, face washes, and fragrances.''Buy The Gift Here''Best Travel Gifts For Men''Long Handled Safety Razor''I do not know when men decided to ditch the straight edge razor for the expensive cartridges, but it was a major mistake. The safety razor provides a closer shave, are cheaper, have a classic look, and it’s easier and smaller to pack than cartridges.''It’s one best travel gifts for men and gifts in general. This is must have for any''travelers toiletry bag''!''Buy The Gift Here''Leatherman Wingman''This makes the perfect travel gift for the adventurous traveler or action sports addict. We can’t travel the world with a box of tools, but a Leatherman makes for a good substitute. I use to work in the film industry and these are a must have item for anyone on set. Ever since then the habit of carrying one has stuck. I’ve tried out a few brands, but always come back the Leatherman brand name. Just remember to always to take it out of your''carry on luggage''when flying as it won’t make it past security.''After using about a half dozen different version of the Leatherman I still love one of their cheapest models. The''Wingman''has all of the basic necessities and spring loaded pliers that feel great in the hand.''Buy The Gift Here''ENO Travel Hammock''This is a unisex travel gift, but any guy is going to love a travel hammock if they don’t already own one. It’s the perfect gift for backpackers or those who spend a lot of time outdoors.''The hammocks are super lightweight, strong, and easy to use. I suggest to pick up the''ENO SlapStraps''too, as it makes it easy to throw the hammock up anywhere.''Buy The Gift Here''Chippewa Apache Boots''The perfect pair of boots is a staple of any traveler. I think every man should own one solid pair of leather boots. They’re stylish, rugged, and practical. I’ve climbed mountains, cruised on pavement, and explored the''African bush\xa0in my boots''and I couldn’t imagine traveling without them.''You have two solid brand choices''Chippewa''or''Red Wings''. My personal preference is''Chippewa''as they’re manufactured entirely in the United States. I am still proud of American made products!''Buy The Gift Here''Solid Cologne''This is a new one for me and I’m happy I found it. For the longest time men and women have traveled with a glass bottle of alcohol based fragrance in their bag. It was heavy and ran the risk of breaking thus ruining whatever it touched with harsh alcohol.''Solid cologne is super easy to pack and it can even be slipped into a''carry on backpack''with out risk. I love the scent of''this cologne'', but a''quick search online''will provide a number of options.''Lush''also makes some great options to check out!''Buy The Gift Here''Best Travel Electronic Gifts''Canon Powershot G9X Mk II''This camera is one of the''best cameras for travel on the market''. We love it! It’s small, records video, and it’s affordable. This is the perfect camera for a blossoming photographer, aspiring blogger, or frequent travel.''It also comes in at an affordable price. With the reliability and image quality of a canon product it’s an amazing travel gift.''Buy The Gift Here''Headphones''I listen to music and podcasts all the time when I travel. We have conflicting opinions on headphones here at The World Pursuit. Natasha likes to opt for a cheap pair of headphones because they’re easy to lose or break. While, I’m a little too much of an audiophile for the cheap headphones and opt for a mid range pair with a decent range.''For a super cheap pair we recommend picking this pair of''Panasonic earbuds''. While, I’ve tried several different headphones varieties over the years Sennhesier has made some of my favorites. For the active user the''CX685 are a great earbud''as they’re washable, remain in your ear, and sound great. Check out our''travel music playlist''for more!''Buy The Gift Here''Amazon Kindle''The''Kindle''transformed the way we read books and now accounts for more than 50% of all book sales in the U.S. It’s the most convenient piece of technology for travelers. The Kindle takes up less space than a regular book and can store thousands.''We also love the non backlit screen as it’s easy on our eyes and not like reading on an LCD screen. We recommend opting for the standard''Kindle''over the Fire. However, if you’re looking for a reasonably priced tablet it’s hard to argue with the appeal of the''Kindle Fire''.''Buy The Gift Here''Mobile Power Bank''We’ve named this''one of our essential items to have for a long haul flight'', it’s easy to understand why. In this day and age we use electronics a lot and we’re pretty much attached to our smartphones for better or worse. Running out of power in a device sucks and can leave you in a bit of bind on the road.''As travelers we carry our reservations, tickets, and directions on our smart phone so we carry''mobile power bank''to top our devices back up with juice. They make great gifts for travelers and they’ll always thank you.''Buy The Gift Here''Trust Our Best Travel Gift Choices!''We personally use and recommend all of these products. Unlike may we have received none of these products for free or have been paid to endorse.''Read Next:''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World''The 10 Best Hiking Backpacks to Conquer Mountains in 2018''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Best Travel Gifts for Travelers in 2017''was last modified:''November 21st, 2017''by''Cameron''What Northern Ireland lacks in size, it more than makes up for it with things to do and see. The region is full of attractions, unusual destinations,''film''locations, history,''food''and drink, and stunning landscapes. We took to the roads to find the best things to do in''Northern Ireland.''This was nothing like our previous''adventures/misadventures we had while Overlanding Africa''. Instead, it was charming and relaxing. Northern Ireland may have some inclement weather, but that’s nothing that the''right packable down jacket''can’t fix and winter gear can’t fix. We had a fabulous road trip and discovered so many things to do in Northern Ireland. Here are a few ideas for your future planning!''Things to do in Northern Ireland''Drive the Coastal Causeway route''This coastal causeway route''is one of the most beautiful road trips in the world. Some of the best things to do in Northern Ireland is along this lovely route and it’s well worth at least a day or two to explore. We were able to hit most of the main sights in one day. However, we recommend two to three days to hit most the sights and leave some time to enjoy and get out of the car. The scenery along the route is some of the best in the world.\xa0 The route is packed with''Game of Thrones''locations, so any fan (like me) will enjoy seeing where the magic was brought to life.\xa0 You can even''book a Game of Thrones tour''!''If you’re not up for driving the route yourself you can book a tour to all of the sights on the Coastal Causeway route.''Book A Coastal Causeway Tour Here!''Stand in awe of the Giant’s Causeway''If you know any of the natural landmarks of Northern Ireland it has to be Giant’s Causeway. Almost 60 million years ago the Giants Causeway was formed from and this series of basalt rock columns is Northern Ireland’s only UNESCO world heritage site. This is the one destination that you can not miss on a trip to Northern Ireland. It’s world famous destination and after visiting we could see why. Rarely do we find such naturally beautiful spots on this planet.''We had two days of sunshine in Ireland and we were lucky to spend one of them at the Giant’s Causeway. If you are driving yourself just note that it is''£8.50''to park and have access to the cafe. However, we were able to avoid this charge by parking down the street and walking about 10 minutes to the main tourist entrance.''Book A Giant’s Causeway Tour Here!''Hours:''Open daily (visitor center) 9:00 am-7:00 pm, dawn-dusk''Admission'': Adults £8.50, children £4.25, family £21 (The causeway is actually free, but the museum and parking costs money)''Address:''Causeway Road, Bushmills, Antrim''Play King at Dunluce Castle''This is was the most beautiful castle we saw in Ireland. It’s not much of a surprise as it’s one of the most visited sites in Northern Ireland. It’s only ruins now, but its setting and sheer scale are still impressive, to say the least. As it is one of the most photogenic spots along the coast make\xa0sure to arrive with early for good light and bring your''favorite travel camera''.''Hours:''Open daily 10:00 am- 5:00 pm (last entry 4:30)''Admission'': Adults £5.00, children £3.00, family £21 (The causeway is actually free, but the museum and parking costs money)''Address:''87 Dunluce Road,''Bushmills''County, Antrim''Walk to the Carrick-a-Rede Rope Bridge''The Causeway Coast is an absolutely stunning place for a walk. Nearby to Giant’s Causeway, you can actually take a walk along the coast to check out a famous rope bridge perched between the coast and a small island. It’s a small bridge, but given its height and precarious location it well worth checking out.''We were a bit disappointed that it now costs money to walk across the bridge. So, we didn’t feel like dropping''£7''to walk across a 15-meter long bridge. Instead, we enjoyed the beautiful coastline and snapped photographs of people crossing the bridge from the mainland.''As a side note, the overflow carpark here is known as the Larrybane Quarry. The former quarry was another setting from the Game of Thrones. The scene takes places in the third episode of Season 2 as Catelyn Stark meets with Renly Baratheon. So, if you’re a fan of the show it’s well worth seeing!''This is one of the best things to do in Ireland! A real highlight.''Hours:''Open daily 9:00 am-7:00 pm, dawn-dusk''Admission'': Adults £7.00, children £3.50, family £13.00''Address:''Whitepark Rd, Ballycastle''Relax at Ballintoy Harbour''This is amazingly beautiful little port town that used to be a port for shipping goods out of Northern Ireland. The historic harbor has made appearances in Game of Thrones and it’s certainly photogenic.\xa0If you’re a fan of the fantasy series it’s location was used as Pyke Bay on the Iron Islands.\xa0 The\xa0picturesque bay is the perfect place to park and have a midday picnic.''Walk the Dark Hedges''Surprise! Another Game of Thrones location that also happens to be one of the most photographed in Northern Ireland. The location is famous for a long row of beech trees that overhang a stretch of road. It produces the effect of a tunnel and was purposely built to impress visitors to the Georgian mansion the Gracehill House. The tree-lined road has been standing for 2 centuries and has only grown with age. We arrived a bit too late in the day to snap many photos because we had spent too long admiring the beauty of Giant’s Causeway. Another reason why this trip is best done in two days!''Parking:''Free parking at the Hedges Hotel.''Get out to Rathlin Island''Just a short ferry ride off the coast lies Rathlin Island. The island is well known for a resident bird population. In the right season, you can find puffins,\xa0guillemots, and\xa0razorbills. The island also plays an important part in Scottish and Irish history as the famous''Robert the Bruce''retreated to the island in exile after being defeated by the English.''However, in his darkest hour on the dramatic island, he found inspiration through a spider and decided that he’d continue to fight for Scottish independence. The story has lived on in Scottish and Irish history and spiders have long been treasured because they inspired a king!''It’s a charming island that you can reach via ferry. A number of pubs, guesthouses, and friendly locals will be waiting for visitors who do decide to make the worthwhile trip.''Ferry times vary from day to day''Go on a Bushmills Distillery Tour''In the town of Bushmills, you can find the birthplace Ireland’s most well-known whiskey producer. The distillery is still in operation offering visitors a chance for a tour and to sample some of their whiskeys. The whiskey actually dates back to 1784! I’m a big fan of whiskey and always jump at the chance to learn some more about the spirit.''I was surprised to find some fine vintages (10 and 21 years) I was unaware of and found them to be excellent!\xa0Irish Whiskey differs from''Scotch as it tripled distilled instead of double''and the result is a lighter whiskey. They also forgo the use of peat to add a level of smokiness like many Scotch whiskys. Some could say the result is a more drinkable spirit, but that remains to be debated.''Hours:''Monday\xa0– Saturday 9:15 – 16:45; Sunday 12:00 – 16:45 (tours run every half hour)''Admission'': Adults £8.00, children £4.50, family £23.00''Address:''2 Distillery Rd, Bushmills, County Antrim''Brave the Gobbins Cliff Walk''Nearly a century ago some very bold Irishmen build a stunning cliff walk that defies the sea. Only to 20 miles North of Belfast, the walk makes for a great first or last stop on your way up the Coastal Causeway Route. It’s a series of bridges, tunnels, and paths that wind through basalt caves and cliff faces. The walk was closed for nearly five decades until it was renovated and opened to visitors in 2014. It has quickly become a hit and must-see on the route. The new experience features a museum, tours, and cafe.''Hours:''Open Daily: 9:30 – 4:30 – Closed in winter!''Admission'': Adults £10.00, children £8.00, family £25.00''Address:''The Gobbins Visitor Centre, Middle Road, Islandmagee BT40 3SL''Adventure around Belfast''It’s not your standard tourist city, but those always seem to be our favorites. Not long ago the city was known for violence,''The Troubles'', that rocked it as Protestants and Catholics clashed. However, since then the city has made a triumphant return and continues to pull in more tourists every year, Tasha has been back twice now because she loves it so much! Head to the city for pubs, museums, Victorian restored buildings, intriguing history, and culinary bites.''Black Cab Tour''Any visitor who cares to learn about a time not long ago known as the “Troubles” should be sure to take what is known as a Black Cab tour.\xa0 These informal tours take place in the back of a black taxi cab. Your local cabbie takes you back through time and you explore the site of numerous conflicts throughout Belfast’s history. They’re meant to be light-hearted, intriguing, and reflective. When Natasha first came here she was on the fence about joining a tour, but after joining a group and doing it she found out there was no better way to learn about the countries history than to be given a tour by someone who lived through it! It’s a must in Belfast!''You can book your cab here!''Titanic Belfast''Tasha loved this one so''much she’s now been twice''! The World Travel Awards have even given it the''Best Tourist Attraction Award in 2016.''Belfast was the birthplace of the doomed Titanic and shipbuilding, in general, has long been associated with Belfast. The building design is truly unique. Some refer to it as a metal iceberg while the architect drew inspiration from ship hulls being built in the Harland & Wolff shipyards right next door. The museum stretches back through time celebrating Belfast’s industrial heritage to the discovery of Titanic’s final resting place in the modern era.\xa0It’s largely interactive meaning that both adults and children can have a lot of enjoyment moving through the exhibits.''You can purchase tickets here!''Hours:''Open Daily: 10:00 – 5:00 (last entry 4:30)''Admission'': Adults £18.00, children £8.00, family £44.00''* Be warned in the summer season they do sell a limited number of tickets so it is best to book in advance.''Address:''1 Olympic Way, Queens Road, Titanic Quarter, Belfast''Drink, Drank, Drunk on a Pub Crawl''Some could say this is for the young of heart but in Ireland everyone drinks. We regularly found ourselves amongst all manner of people in Ireland’s traditional pubs. Young or old, rich or poor, everyone finds a home in one Ireland’s pubs. They’re focal points for Irish culture and the best way to experience Celtic music. A pub crawl involves a tour across a collection of different pubs. Some of these tours target backpackers looking for a party while others focus on history or live music.''You can purchase tickets here!''Eat in Belfast''The food scene in Belfast is quickly changing. On our stay in the city, we found a number of tantalizing restaurants to choose from and ended up trying''Causerie Bistro''in the Europa Hotel and''Yügo''a new Asian fusion restaurant.\xa0Causerie Bistro was the easy choice as it was located on the first floor of our hotel. It serves up many Irish staples such as bangers and mash, curries, fish and chips, and steaks. All of it locally! To top it off I tried their “chocolate brownie” what I got was a massive sundae that was intoxicating, and so delicious I left reeling from a sugar high. I couldn’t say no!''Yügo serves up some amazing food and one of the best meals we’ve had in the Europe thus far. It’s menu consists of various small plates of menu items inspired by Japanese and Korean cooking.''Of course, there are many places to eat in the capital city. I recommend checking out reviews on Trip Advisor or asking a local to see what you like best.''Stay at Europa Hotel''Belfast has an ever growing selection of hotels in the city and we stayed at the''Europa Hotel.''It is more or less the most well-known hotel in Belfast. While the large marble lobby and beautiful first floor piano bar seem like a far cry from the hotel’s former claim to fame it is actually known in history as the most bombed building in Europe. That’s right the hotel was bombed''36 times throughout the period known as the Troubles.''Now it is a beautiful hotel and an iconic part of Belfast. It has undergone a beautiful refurbishment making the hotel stylish and grand. We had the pleasure of staying in one of their suites which were larger than many of the full apartments we stayed on our trip through Northern Ireland. We overlooked the business of Belfast from one of the top floors and enjoyed watching the sunset each day we were in Belfast from here. My favorite place in the hotel has to the piano bar that looks down on the street above and out to the Crown pub a famous institution of Belfast much like the hotel itself. Honestly, I can’t really imagine staying in a more fitting hotel when visiting Belfast.''Londonderry''Also known as''Derry''this is the second city in Northern Ireland. It was once an important inland port that used the River Foyle, but after the division of Ireland, it lost natural hinterland. It has a long history with amazing 17th-century walls around the old town that still remain largely intact. We took an afternoon off from sightseeing and just ambled around the city checking coffee shops and restaurants.''Tollymore Forest Park''This is dense forest feels like taking a step into a fairytale. Its playful garden designs date back to the 18th century and since then it has only grown with age. You can find grottos, “castles,” caves, bridges, and rocky outcrops in an old wood forest. Many of the trees here were planted as part of an experiment, as you can find monkey puzzle, eucalyptus, redwoods, and Monterey pines. The forest feels magical and it shouldn’t be any surprise it has made a few film appearances including (what else?) Game of Thrones.''Pick up a car to get around!''There is no better way to explore Ireland than with your own car. Of course, you can rely on public transport, but if you are a group of two or more a car may be the more economical (and definitely easier) way to go.''We used Hertz rental car for the length of our stay in Ireland and for the third time (and now last) of using Hertz we were overcharged at the end of our rental. No notice of being charged and we have signed copies of the receipt that was the final bill. But unfortunately, they continue to randomly charge our credit card and we are forever in ongoing fights with them. Save yourself the trouble and use a different car company. We’ve always had great experiences with SiXT and will be using them from now on.''Read Next:''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''15 North Coast 500 Tips to Know Before You Go''Where To Stay In Edinburgh: Our Favorites!''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay • Celebrating New Year’s Eve in Scotland''January 21, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''10 Things to Know Before you Travel to Scotland''November 28, 2017''15 Things to do in Northern Ireland on Your Road Trip''was last modified:''April 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''Who doesn’t love the winter season? I’m not much for gloomy, overcast, and rainy weather but I have to admit I love the winter season. White snow, mulled wine, warm scarves, and a breath of fresh brisk air.''Europe''is my favorite region in the winter season. It’s why we keep coming back to the continent during December, January, and March. Just because it’s the coldest time of year doesn’t mean it’s not a good time to travel.''Turns out, we’re not the only person that loves to spend winter in Europe. We’ve asked 19 other travel bloggers to chat about where to have the best winter vacation in Europe. Here are their answers!''Best Winter Vacations in Europe''St. Petersburg, Russia''The Telegraph compared visiting Saint Petersburg in winter to “stepping into a Russian novel”. Now, who wouldn’t want to experience that? Saint Petersburg in winter is a must-visit destination and is truly magical at this time of the year. Freakishly cold (''so bring a good down jacket)'', but magical nevertheless.''Saint Petersburg is located on the Neva River so it is notorious for wind chills. It is also dark and gloomy during winter months, but I promise it will be worth it once you see the frozen canals and royal palaces covered in snow. You can actually tour some of the palaces to warm up and get absolutely blown away by their grandeur and beauty. Some of the palaces recommended to visit are Catherine Palace, Yusupov Palace, Mikhailovskiy Palace, and Winter Palace.''Experiencing Russian opera and ballet is another advantage of visiting during winter. While summer is the peak season for travelers, it is the off-season for most of the theatres. So braving the cold will give you a chance to boast about watching famous Russian ballet at Mariinsky Theatre.''If you are more into adventurous activities than arts and culture, consider ice skating and skiing at Victory Park or at the frozen pond at Yelagin Island. Whatever it is you choose, Saint Petersburg will not disappoint. After a cold day outside you can always warm up with a bowl of steaming hot borsch or a plate of''traditional Russian pelmeni.''–''The Foodie Miles''Tallinn, Estonia''Tallinn is a city''is that is perfect in the winter for a short city break. During the winter the city can often become magical with snow-covered rooftops and streets. This combined with the fact that the\xa0city is naturally beautiful with medieval towers, ancient walls, a stunning old town, and cobbled streets make it extremely photogenic and one of the best winter destinations.''It’s also only a two-hour ferry ride away from Helsinki!''One of the highlights of this city is the Old Town, which is in the center of the city. This is full of attractions such as museums, churches and historic landmarks, as well as beautiful restaurants. Within the city are also lots of top places to stay and a good hotel would be the stunning''Savoy Boutique''. This hotel is located right next to the Old Town and a short walk to many of the cities main attractions. It comes with a lush and elegant design and after exploring would be an amazing place to go back to and escape the cold weather.''Finally, when visiting Tallinn you’ll need to make sure you take a good quality coat, as well as a hat, gloves and''winter boots.''As during this season temperatures can average between -2°C and -5°C. It can also get very windy, especially at some of the many awesome viewpoints around the city, so wrapping up warm is crucial when visiting to enjoy the city and stay comfortable.''–''Travel and Destinations''Zermatt, Switzerland''Zermatt in the winter time''can only be described as a magical winter wonderland. This chocolate box alpine village, under its blanket of snow, is set against the backdrop of the iconic Matterhorn and is a must on anyone’s Swiss itinerary. Whether you’re into skiing or not, you can’t help but fall under the charm of this beautiful village. It will enchant you with its little back roads, its traditional and modern chalets, its lack of traffic (it’s a car-free village) as well as the restaurants and shops that line the main street.''Skiers are spoiled for choice with the kilometers of slopes on offer. A trip up to the Klein Matterhorn or a journey on the train to the Gornergrat is a must for non-skiers. There is a lively après-ski scene and an abundance of restaurants catering to all tastes from traditional Swiss fayre to Japanese, Chinese, Italian and more. It is also a great resort for''families visiting Zermatt''although it does come with a hefty price tag.''If you want to be in the heart of the action and are looking for a fun, quirky place to stay, be sure to check out the''Unique Hotel Post''. We usually stay in self-catering accommodation as this suits our family’s needs perfectly and is a great option''Top tip: don’t forget to pack a''skiing balaclava''. We can’t live without ours! It can get very cold and windy on the slopes and they help keep our faces toasty warm.''–''The Little Den''Reykjavik, Iceland''Any trip to Iceland will start and end in the capital city, Reykjavik.''It’s a great city to visit all year round,''but during Iceland’s winter months it comes alive! There may not be much daylight in the winter season, but the streets are covered in white snow and are lined with Christmas lights. In the winter you can see the Aurora Borealis, a spectacular show and a sight everyone should see in their lifetime.''There are a handful of festivals in the wintertime like the Dark Music Days in January and Rainbow Reykjavik in February. The most famous festival; however, is the Winter Lights Festival which is held the first week of February. The festival celebrates the winter and the growing sunlight that is returning to Iceland.''My favorite place to stay in Reykjavik is the''CenterHotel Midgardur''. The hotel is sleek, modern, and centrally located in town. We stayed here after our''campervan trip around the Ring Road'', and it was nice to be in a comfortable bed and with a hot shower after 10 days sleeping in a van. The best part is it’s reasonably priced for the city so it will help with your Iceland travel budget.''If I were to pick the best time to visit Iceland it would most certainly be in the winter. Just make sure to pack a few coats in your''carry on luggage''!''-The World Pursuit (that’s us!)''Paris, France''While a popular tourist destination over the summer months, Paris holds a little-known secret very close to its chest. In winter, France’s beautiful capital transforms into one of the most stunning cities in Europe and is definitely a must-see destination that should not be overlooked during the colder climate.''Aside from the breathtaking sight of white rooftops and iconic monuments being dusted with snow, there are also many benefits of visiting Paris during winter. Have you ever wondered what it would be like barely having to line up to enter the Musée du Louvre or not having to brave a snaking queue to ascend the Eiffel Tower? This was my experience and a sign of what you can expect in the winter months, especially after New Years and before Easter. Fewer tourists competing for limited space means you can spend less time wasting your day lining up and more time exploring the museums and other popular attractions that make Paris such a desirable winter destination.''Fewer tourists lead me to the next benefit of visiting''Paris during winter.''Minimal tourists also mean minimal pickpockets, who are notorious for targeting visitors at popular Parisian attractions. Yes, unfortunately, it’s likely there will still be a few prowling about on occasion but I was very surprised at the difference in their numbers between my summer and winter visitors in the same year. It’s much a much more enjoyable experience when you’re able to relax a little and take in the sights of Paris without the lingering pressure of being targeted by pickpockets.''-The Invisible Tourist''Kiruna, Sweden''This Swedish city north of the arctic circle doesn’t hibernate in winter; it thrives. The snow is knee deep, the northern lights are often visible, and many locals drive around their snowmobiles. The sun doesn’t even rise for 21 days in December. As the locals say: the days may be short and the nights may be long, but with a bright full moon, it looks a lot like daytime. That’s honestly an attitude we should all aspire to have. Besides being aesthetically pleasing, it’s also simply a fascinating place.''Some winter activities include learning about Sami culture, visiting the Snow Festival (end of January), and drinking glögg to keep warm. For the active visitor, there’s ice skating, dog sledding, skiing, and ice climbing. Uniquely so, the local iron mine is one of Kiruna’s main tourist attractions.''Historically speaking,''Kiruna''has mostly been a mining town. They found iron deposits in the area and next to it they built a town. Now they’ve discovered more iron underneath the town. So what do the Swedish do? They relocate the town eastward like that’s no big deal at all. The mine produces enough iron for six Eiffel Towers a day, and is open for visits year-round – despite the frozen conditions in winter.''Speaking of freezing, in the nearby town of Jukkasjärvi hosts the original''Ice Hotel.''If you ever wanted a stay to never forget, this is it. Every year, snow is harvested and ice blocks are carved out of a nearby river. Then engineers and artists build the entire structure from scratch. You’ll sit on it, you’ll drink from it, and you’ll sleep on it. Make sure to bring a pair of''warm mittens''when visiting Sweden in the winter!''-Mind of a Hitchhiker''Bruges, Belgium''Tucked away in a quiet corner of northwest Belgium is the fairytale medieval town of Bruges. Listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, narrow cobbled streets weave through its center linking the canals, hidden squares and colorful houses of this beautiful old town. Regarded as one of the best medieval towns in Europe countless Belgian chocolate shops, waffle makers, quirky beer houses and tiny restaurants fill every corner.''Bruges is extremely popular with day trip visitors from the surrounding cities, especially at weekends, so we recommend staying at least one night to truly experience its magic. We love the''Hotel Acacia,''located next to the main square, with its resident parrot, Coco, who greets guests upon arrival at the hotel! Beautiful in every season, Bruges is extra special during the winter when it is home to one of the''best Christmas markets in Europe''and the Old Town transforms into a festive wonderland complete with a Christmas village in the town square.''Packed with everything festive from delicious food to mulled wine, unique chocolate souvenirs and ice skating under the shadow of the Belfry Tower, the Bruges Christmas market is definitely one not to miss. Evenings spent wandering through the twinkling Old Town eating, drinking and skating are some of our most magical memories. Don’t forget, it can get chilly in between all those mulled wines and hot chocolates – winter in Europe requires wrapping up warmly and we always pack a cosy''warm scarf''to keep the cold winter air at bay!''–''The Whole World is a Playground''Dresden, Germany''Dresden is a beautiful city''to visit at any time of the year but in winter it really comes to life. It has a rich history, grand baroque palaces and museums decorate the city center, stuffed with a wealth of treasures and art collected by the most notable ruler of Saxony, King Augustus the Strong. The winter means Christmas markets for Dresden. Each market is unique and reflects its neighborhood and origins. The largest market on the Altmarkt square is also the oldest in Germany. The Streizelmarkt is built from the ground up each year but resembles more of a village than a temporary festival. Gluhwein, Gluhbeer, and Jagertea are the drinks of choice here. Be sure to try a selection since each stand has its own unique flavor.''Beautifully handcrafted decorations from the nearby Erzgebirge mountains can be taken home as a souvenir. The Streizelmarket is opened with the Stollen Parade. Stollen is a traditional fruit cake, coated with a mixture of powdered sugar and butter. A huge stollen is paraded through the city on a wagon pulled by horses accompanied by a marching band and fanfare. Outside of Christmas ice skating is possible at the winter festival and the museums which are quieter than other times of year beckon visitors out of the cold.''Stay at the''Vienna House QF Hotel'', an elegant hotel in the heart of Dresden’s baroque old town, a central location, without compromising a restful night’s sleep. Five of Dresden’s Christmas markets and many museums are situated within a few minutes walk of the hotel.''-Happiness Travels Here''Annecy, France''Annecy is a small Alpine town within the Haute-Savoie region of France. It is located at the northernmost tip of the Lac d’Annecy, set against the stunning backdrop of the mighty French Alps. This means that despite its small size, there are many reasons to visit all year round. But for us,''Annecy in winter''is extra-special.''Lac d’Annecy is the third-largest in France and boasts the position of being Europe’s cleanest lake. The views of the lake from Annecy town, set against the backdrop of the snow-covered Alps in winter, are particularly magnificent. As well as offering easy access to a number of ski resorts and alpine trails, the historic Vieux Ville (old town) is a picture-perfect place to visit in winter with Insta-worthy photo opportunities galore.''Visiting during winter means that you can enjoy numerous seasonal delights around the old town of Annecy itself. The Christmas markets are always something special. Afterwards, visit one of the numerous restaurants in the town and enjoy some local cuisine. Annecy is a cheese-lovers dream, and local cheese-based specialties''tartiflette''and''r''aclette''will feature on many menus. Finally, strolling around the lake or over to the town hall to watch the spectacular light show will help to work off some of those cheese and wine calories.''Our top hotel pick in Annecy is''Les Tresoms Lake and Spa resort'', overlooking the lake. A spa hotel is a perfect place to relax and warm up after a day in the Alpine temperatures. To stave off the cold during the mountain winters, we are never without our''Icebreaker merino wool underlayers''. Both the leggings and long-sleeved tops help to stop the cold seeping through.''–''Trip Gourmet''Lviv, Ukraine''The first time I visited''Lviv, Ukraine''was in the winter time and it was love at first sight. The city looked beautiful, like from a fairy tale! The clear blue sky, the snow crunching under the feet and shining in the sun was pure magic. Lviv is a place where you easily have one of the best winter vacations in Europe''Sometimes there was so much snow that the streets were blocked, but that just added to the overall atmosphere of the city. Even the crazy cold (like -20°C) didn’t bother all that much. And when I was starting to feel uncomfortable I could escape to one of the cozy cafes that Lviv is full of. The beauty in Lviv hides inside and there are few places where the interior will make your jaw drop – some of them are the Opera, House of Scientists or Ethnography Museum. Since Lviv is also crazy cheap you can have great culinary experiences at a low cost. Just remember to take warm''merino wool socks''with you as winters in Lviv can get really cold!''During one of my visits, I discovered by accident the''George Hotel.''As it turned out it’s the oldest hotel in Lviv, full of history and a long list of noble names that stayed there. Not to mention the interior that is stunning too. With your breakfast, you will get a live piano music to make the start of the day even more enjoyable.''-My Wanderlust''Sardinia, Italy''Sardinia''is the ultimate summer destination in Europe, thanks to its amazing beaches. Yet, it is a very pleasant place to visit in the winter, thanks to its gorgeous nature, beautiful cities, charming villages, unique archeological sites, winter festivals and delicious food and wine.''Cagliari, the capital, is a good place to begin explorations. Not only is the city is packed with interesting sights, museums, restaurants, and nightlife; but it also provides easy access to a number of nearby attractions. Be it coastal hiking trails, archaeological sites, and even lovely beaches where to take an afternoon stroll.''Cagliari has a wide choice of hotels to choose from, but one of the best is''George Hotel.''which is walking distance from the city center. It is located right in front of Sardinia’s most important theater and near a beautiful urban park. The hotel has a lovely bistro and a bar that is a favorite of the locals.''The weather in Sardinia during the winter varies depending on the location. It typically snows in the mountains, but the coast enjoys mild temperatures and sunny days most of the time. However, humidity in the air is such that even the slightest breeze may make it quite cold, so a''good travel scarf''is a must-have accessory to block the cold.''-My Adventures Across The World''Lisbon, Portugal''Lisbon, Portugal’s capital city, is a wonderful winter destination. Blue skies and sunshine are still plentiful and the relative lack of tourists makes this a great time to visit. As long as you wrap up, the mild winter temperatures mean you can still enjoy the numerous outdoor cafés and strolling around the city to admire it from various hilltop viewing spots.''Even on grey days, Lisbon is far from gloomy. The city is renowned for its light, which reflects from the wide Tagus River and the limestone cobbled paving. Vibrant street art, colorfully painted tile-clad buildings liven up the cityscape even further.''The aroma and smoke of roasting chestnuts permeate the streets and in the weeks surrounding Christmas, innovative decorations dominate Lisbon’s squares and major thoroughfares. Depending on which month you choose to visit, you’ll encounter various food and winter markets. Christmas also brings a cycle of concerts to the city, some in the squares, others in theatres and churches.''As you’d expect from a capital city, Lisbon has many fabulous palaces and museums including the Gulbenkian, the National Museum of Ancient Art and the new Museum of Art, Architecture and Technology where you can take shelter on rainy days. Even the metro stations form an underground art gallery. Shopping is also a pleasure, whether you prefer element-proof shiny malls, traditional independent shops, indoor markets, unique boutiques, treasure trove antique shops or quirky shopping centers with concept and design stores, such as Embaixada.''Nightlife still spills out onto the streets in winter, except on rainy evenings, although there are plenty of warm, cozy drinking and eating spots if it’s too chilly for you. The New Year’s Eve celebrations with fireworks over the Tagus River are worth braving the cold for.''The best place to stay in Lisbon''is''George Hotel.'', perfectly located for shopping, sightseeing, nightlife, and views.''-Julie Dawn Fox in Portugal''Prague, Czech Republic''Overrun with tourists in the warmer months, Prague can feel downright deserted in winter. Snowfall will muffle your footsteps as you explore the Old Town and Castle Districts. Our favorite street, Novy Svet, is a vintage wonderland of embellished doorways specifically crafted to distinguish its residences from one another. At the bottom of the steps leading to Thunovská street, you can duck into a low barrel-ceilinged medieval townhouse repurposed into a cozy coffee bar. The fabled Charles Bridge is shrouded in mist rising from the Vltava, and the city skyline takes on a mysterious air in the milky light so beloved by painters through the centuries. Shopkeepers and servers have all the time in the world for pleasantries in the winter, and locals are happy to reach out with offers to share a meal or recommend an experience.''Go prepared with practical footwear –''warm boots''perfect for tromping around in cold and damp conditions. The''Clarion Hotel''Prague''Old Town.''is a great place to stay. It is tucked away on a quiet side street only a five-minute walk to Dlouhá Street.''First-time visitors to Pragu''e\xa0should definitely consider coming in the off-season for a more authentic, slice-of-life experience in one of Europe’s most magical destinations.''-Passing Thru''Lapland, Finland''Finnish Lapland is''the''winter white paradise in Europe. Freshly fallen snow sparkles during the day and reflects the moonlight at night. The trees are transformed into nature’s best interpretive ice sculptures while the hues of the northern lights dance overhead. Yes, the temperature is''really''cold, but you won’t be able to resist venturing out into idyllic winter beauty only found in Lapland.''Rovaniemi is the most popular spot to start your''trip to Finnish Lapland''.\xa0The town is easily walkable and has numerous companies offering trips to explore the forests and trails all around, whether by snowmobile, dog sled, or reindeer sleigh.''Once you’ve adjusted to life north of the Arctic Circle, head to the untouched wilderness of Luosto to snowshoe and watch the Auroras light up the sky. If snowshoeing isn’t for you, the area also has downhill and cross-country skiing. Either way, there’s something truly unforgettable about exploring the snowy wilderness on foot without the humming of a motor to disrupt the silence.''Afterward, return to your very own log cabin, bookable through''Lapland Hotel Luostotunturi.''They’re surrounded by wilderness and come with their own fireplace and sauna!''Having a great time in the extreme cold means having the right gear. Regardless of where your Finnish Lapland''adventures''take you, be sure to pack a pair of''thermal underwear''. Tour operators will provide you with proper Arctic boots and snow suits, but you’ll need the right layers underneath to keep warm.''-The Globetrotting Teacher''Andermatt, Switzerland''Andermatt,''Switzerland''is a postcard-perfect winter destination. Think snow-capped mountains, ski slopes, and thermal baths. After foreign investment and much restoration, the once small skiing village is now a significant Alpine resort destination. Joining the nearby skiing area of Sedrun, it has become the largest ski area in central Switzerland. If you love hitting the slopes, then you’ll be spoilt for choice as there are over 120kms of runs.''Yet with all the refurbishing and development, it still has that quaint village charm that you can enjoy at any time of the year. You’ll definitely want to visit at Christmas time as the sleepy snowy town comes alive with a jovial Christmas Market. There is a magical fairytale like quality as lights are displayed along the streets in a wonderful festive scene.''If you want to experience luxury, you’ll definitely want to stay at the''George Hotel.''My favorite thing about the Chedi is the indoor or outdoor heated pools. I love taking a thermal bath among the pristine winter scenery. Although the Chedi spa is very pricey, it is definitely one of the most luxurious you’ll ever experience. If you’re wanting the perfect alpine escape, give Andermatt\xa0a try. It really is a beautiful and charming winter destination.''-Singapore and Beyond''Borovets, Bulgaria''Borovets in Bulgaria''is a great destination for those who want to experience a ‘proper’ European winter on a budget. Just 90 minutes’ drive from Sofia Airport, the resort is small enough to be walkable but large enough to have all the conveniences and entertainment that visitors would expect from a modern-day tourist town. International restaurant chains have started to creep into the resort but most places are independent, traditional Bulgarian eateries offering hot stews, traditional soups, and freshly baked bread.''Summer is a beautiful time to visit Borovets, but the region really comes to life in the winter, when snow blankets the mountains and wolf cubs can be seen playing in the pine forests. The resort has a great selection of ski and snowboard runs from beginner to expert, as well as off-piste skiing and of course great apres-ski. For visitors who don’t fancy skiing, snow-shoeing, skidoo safaris, and husky sled rides are also available. Budget apartments are widely available, but if you’re looking for a relaxing holiday why not try the upscale''Hotel Rila''at the bottom of the main slope for ski-up affordable luxury?''–''Adventure Travel Family''Budapest, Hungary''Traveling to Europe in the winter is the perfect time to visit, and Budapest is one of those cities that is truly special. There are way fewer tourists in town which have several benefits: cheaper accommodation rates, less crowded attractions, more tolerable temperatures, making it overall more enjoyable. Our first visit was just after Thanksgiving when the Christmas markets were set up throughout the city. As you wander around the city checking out all the''things to do in Budapest''you’ll continue to stumble upon Christmas markets. Which is also a great place to pick up a unique gift for those back at home.''If you happen to be going to Christmas markets in Germany or Austria you’ll find that the prices are much cheaper in Budapest. We stayed at the''Kempinski\xa0Budapest Hotel'', which has a Christmas market on one side of the hotel and the Budapest Eye Ferris Wheel on the other side. It’s the perfect location for exploring the city. Don’t’ forget an''umbrella'', it may be winter but the temperature vary in Budapest. You could have snow one day and the next day rain.''–''Getting Stamped''Graz, Austria''The beautiful Austrian city Graz is a true gem. It’s the second largest city in Austria and the capital of Styria. Back in 1999, Graz was added to the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Sites – and this is definitely not surprising. The cobblestoned streets, cute buildings, and the\xa0amazing landscapes are unique. In the winter is when this city really starts to sparkle.''Not only does it host 14 (!) truly Austrian Christmas markets, but also adds the snow a special atmosphere to the rather old, traditional, and sleepy city. Entering Graz during winter will put an immediate smell of roasted almonds into your nose. Followed by some mulled wine odor and the views of perfectly lit Christmas trees. Once the sun sets in Graz, the whole city will be put into an almost cold, but still warm-ish orange. Then, the atmosphere is truly magic. People start gathering in the streets, they wander to the various markets, get their first mulled wine and maybe snack on some grilled sausage, as this is a typical dish to eat on a Christmas market.''Then, it is also the perfect time to get to the Schlossberg. This mountain lies on top of the city and functions as the\xa0perfect lookout for those that are sunset-lovers just like myself.\xa0Within five minutes\xa0the funicular will take you to the top. The mountain is 123 meters high and during Christmas time it is home to one of the most romantic Christmas markets I have ever seen. It’s called “Aufsteirern” and is somehow a mix of medieval market and a magic Christmas play that takes place right around you.''Every\xa0Friday, they meet at the “Wunderland” Christmas market. It’s located in the cool and upcoming district Lend and combines some proper old Austrian and German music with Christmas atmosphere. Could it get any better?''My tip –''Don’t forget to pack''mittens''! How else can you hold a mug of mulled wine outside in the cold?''-Travellers Archive''Milan, Italy''Not many people are aware that my hometown Milan is actually a great winter destination. Summers are very hot, and spring and autumn are very busy with festivals, trade fairs, and other events – but December-February is low season and you’ll be able to find great deals on flights and accommodation. The city does get cold – but the good thing is that you can go skiing about an hour away! Milan has the reputation of being an expensive city, but as a matter of fact, there are plenty of''places to visit in Milan for free''. You can visit many churches, museums on the first Sunday of each month and there are even some Christmas markets\xa0– my favorite is the one near Navigli.''Shopping is also reason enough to visit Milan – the city is famous for its expensive boutiques but there are also many artisan and young designer shops, where you’ll be able to snap up unique pieces of clothing/accessories at bargain prices. Areas like Brera, Porta Ticinese, and Isola are great places for a spot of pre-Christmas shopping. If you happen to visit the city in January or February, even better – that’s when the sales are on! Milan also has some amazing restaurants from''all over Italy and beyond''. Milanese dishes are actually perfect comfort food for winter – my favorite is risotto alla Milanese with saffron, delicious in its simplicity. PanEvo restaurant makes the best one in town!''–''The Crowded Planet''Glacier Express, Switzerland''The''Glacier Express''is a luxury train that connects most of the Swiss Alps region starting at St. Moritz and finishing in Zermatt in a journey that covers some of''Switzerland’s''poshest and most coveted Alpine stations. The Glacier Express opened its doors in 1930 after skiing in the Swiss mountains became the sport of the wealthy. Savvy hoteliers during this time started to promote the area to well-off British families. Its construction was an engineering feat of the time as 291 bridges and 91 tunnels were required to cross the towering peaks.''The highest point in the Glacier Express trip is the Oberalp Pass that lies at 2,033 meters. Coming out of it in winter is like suddenly seeing wonderland with quaint Swiss villages covered in powder snow and steaming chimneys puffing in the air. Parts of the Glacier Express like The Rhaetian Railway in the Albula/Bernina Landscape, are of universal value and considered a UNESCO Heritage Site.''A large part of the journey crosses the Swiss National Park where nature is protected. That is, trees cannot be logged, hunting is not allowed and nature must be preserved how it once was, completely untouched. As you traverse the countryside, look out of the large train windows, you are likely to spot castles, hilltop farmhouses, and churches. Make sure to buy 1st Class Panorama tickets so you can enjoy the largest windows that reach up to half of the ceiling. After all, you came for the view.''As the journey takes almost an entire day to cover, you will need to spend the night at either side. Choose Andermatt for an extra dose of Alpine living, and''The Chedi Andermatt'', for a stunning luxury hotel option with in-room fireplaces, free-standing bathtubs, and incredible Swiss hospitality.''–''Once in a Lifetime Journey''Read Next:''21 Europe Packing List Items You Don’t Want to Forget''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''was last modified:''April 6th, 2018''by''Natasha''When is the best time to visit''Iceland''? We get this question a lot since our''recent Ring Road trip''. It’s a hard question to answer because there is no “BEST” time to visit Iceland. Just a time that suits you and what you want to get out of your''trip to Iceland.''I’ve been to Iceland twice now, once in July and October. Both were fabulous times to go to Iceland and I’m happy I got to see the difference between seasons. In the summer you will no doubt get to see the Midnight Sun, while in the winter your chances are high of seeing the Northern Lights.\xa0 I’m going to break down each month for you and what exactly you can expect for all four''seasons''in Iceland.''Iceland in the Winter''Iceland in January''January is one of the quietest months in Iceland. It is great for those looking to get away from crowds of tourists. Days are short and the cold can be brutal. Most landscapes will be covered in snow. If you are after an endless winter then Iceland in January is your calling. With almost 19 hours of darkness, winter is often the best time to visit Iceland to see the Northern Lights, that is if the cloud cover breaks. Prices for accommodation and tours will be lower as it is the offseason. I don’t think this is a bad time to go to Iceland, just make sure you are prepared and''pack well for the cold''!''Some of the best things to embrace an Icelandic winter is to go snowmobiling, venture into ice caves, relish in the natural hot springs, and after all that is done you can go warm up in a Reykjavik bar with the locals! Just make sure you have a''warm down jacket for the cold weather''.''Iceland in February''Iceland in February is similar to January, except your days will be filled with a bit more\xa0daylight. Expect unpredictable weather, plenty of snow, and a high probability of catching the Aurora Borealis. The temperatures can range anywhere between -10°C and 8\xa0°C, a''good packable down jacket''is a smart idea. Reykjavik can be busy at this time of year as the capital city plays host to\xa0a number of festivals including the''Stockfish Film Festival'',''Rainbow Reykjavik'', the''Winter Lights Festival'', and the''Reykjavik Bar Summit''.''Iceland in the spring''Iceland in March''The winter fun is now winding down and snow begins to melt in Reykjavik.\xa0 It’s not a Christmas wonderland and it’s not quite a summer bonanza this is one of''Iceland''‘s least visited months. Since the crowds are low and it’s still cold March is a good time to''drive the Ring Road''if you’re averse to crowds and on a budget.''Days are getting longer in March, but it still gets dark at night so your chance of seeing the Northern Lights is high! The chances of rain and snow are also still high, and you shouldn’t expect warm weather by any means. The average daily temperature of Iceland in March is between -3°C and 3°C. Pack warm clothes!''Iceland in April''Days grow longer and the Icelanders can almost smell the sweet summer air. Although the sun and warm weather are almost there, it still has a month to go. This means that some summer activities aren’t available, and a few winter activities may have stopped. It’s still possible to go on a brisk hike in April and take in some cool air of course. Another great thing to do is head to Southern Iceland around Skogafoss, Vik, and Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon.''Keep in mind that with daylight creeping in your chance of seeing the Nothern Lights start to drop, but it is still possible! April is the beginning of the whale season, so there are plenty of whale watching tours departing from Reykjavik. You stand a great chance to see the minke whale up close!\xa0 I should mention April brings puffin season too. Yup, April marks your chance to see those cute/funny looking birds in Iceland!''Iceland in May''It’s May in Iceland meaning it’s just about to hit summer and peak season. Now is the time to come if you want a semi-reasonable deal on travel (sorry guys, nothing in Iceland is cheap). The weather is temperamental and there is more daylight than night and you can get beautifully long sunsets. The Icelanders will be coming out of a long winter so the atmosphere of Iceland is joyous.\xa0 The weather can still be unpredictable though, and I would still recommend packing like you are going to Iceland in the winter just in case.''Although you won’t see the Northern Lights, May in Iceland is when wildlife comes alive! The beautiful puffin bird returns to shores of Iceland in April so it’s almost guaranteed you will be able to see them in May. Whale watching tours will also be more pleasant under the May sun and they run often. Last but not least, you can go horseback riding without freezing in May!''(Do it – it’s totally worth it)''.''Iceland in the summer''Iceland in June''Long sunny days, less rain, heavy winds that turn into light breezes – It’s summer in Iceland! June is what many locals consider to be the best time of year to visit Iceland. June in Iceland has the longest daylight hours and on June 21st you will witness the longest day of the year. The Midnight Sun, or when the sun is still visible at midnight, will be a common occurrence now and can make for some stellar photos. This is a natural phenomenon that happens around the Arctic Circle so visiting Iceland in June is extra special and a reason in itself enough to go.''June in Iceland will yield 24 hours of daylight for a few weeks. If staying up all night and partying with the Icelanders is your cup of tea then summertime is when you will want to be in Iceland. Or if partying isn’t your thing the 24 hours of daylight will give you a huge advantage if you are driving around Iceland. More daylight means more time to see things and there is''plenty''to see in Iceland.''Iceland in July''Both July and August are great times to do warm(er) weather activities. Things like scuba diving in Þingvellir or hiking around the country are great this time of year. Of course, you can still do these activities in the colder months, but I think we can all agree it’s more enjoyable with some sunshine. It may be warmer and you’re guaranteed some beautiful green landscapes, summer in Iceland comes with a few issues.''It’s peak season in Iceland so expect prices to be through the roof. Also, like most places around the world summertime is when most people take their vacations, especially Americans. And Americans LOVE Iceland so you can expect to find a lot more people in the country. That being said I visited Iceland in July and had a fabulous time. I hiked during the day, biked around Reykjavik, partied until the sun “set” at 2 am, and joined my Icelandic friends at the public swimming pools. People are happy in the summertime and you just can’t beat that vibe in Iceland.''Yes, it got cold hiking in July!''Iceland in August''August is the warmest time of the year to travel the Arctic circle. In Iceland, summer temperatures averaging around\xa015°C. The summer days are the kind you’re likely used to in August, with the sun rising between 5am-6am and setting between 9 and 10. So you still get long days with the ability to sleep in darkness!''August is just a great time to make the very most out of Iceland. The land will be green and lush, the sun will be shining, and some of the most popular tours are running. It’s also a great time if you want to go on a hiking and camping adventure as the climate is ideal. August is the last month you will for sure see puffins (although there are stragglers hanging about in September).''Iceland in the fall''Iceland in September''September is great everywhere in the world, and it’s no different for Iceland. It’s when the fall colors start to show off and the temperatures are comfortable. You may start to get a little rain, but nothing that should hold you back from visiting Iceland. Most tours run at least until the end of September and we found that every single big campsite was still open for campers and''camper vans''until the 30th. Days begin to grow shorter in September so you stand a chance to see the Northern Lights.''Snow is around the corner, but most roads should remain open. This leaves open the possibility for many visitors the to still see some amazing places like the West Fjords,\xa0 Landmanalauger,''the Golden Circle'', or Mount Hekla. If you’re a film geek you will want to head to Reykjavik for the annual Reykjavik International Film Festival as well.''Iceland in October''In my opinion, this is the best time to visit Iceland. I mean it’s October, and who doesn’t love that time of year when the leaves turn bright yellow, orange, and red! (Don’t worry – there is even a Dunkin Donuts in Reykjavik for a pumpkin spice latte). Fall is exactly what we found when we did a camping trip around the Ring Road. The weather was pleasant with only a few days of rain and a bit of sunshine each day. We were even able to go hiking with just a flannel and a''hiking backpack!''It’s not only the weather that made this wonderful but because it was considered off-season in Iceland there were far fewer tourists than in the summer (although still a lot).\xa0 This season is known for an influx of Chinese tourists. We were getting low season prices for things like our''Happy Campers van'', hotel stays, and even could stay at campsites for free as they were closed for the season. Most importantly, we saw the Northern Lights – twice! This time of year is simply amazing in Iceland, check out what it was like for us!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Iceland in November''November is officially when you can say…”Winter is coming”. Expect cold weather, shorter days, and rain. Many roads will be shut, with the ring road is still accessible. Just make sure that you are vigilant about the weather! The fall colors have mostly subsided, but snow is starting to fall which makes the waterfalls, mountains, and volcanoes even more beautiful.''Some of the most popular things to do in Iceland is November is a glacier hike, ice caving, and the Nothern Lights. Like many places in Europe, tourism is dwindling, so you will have the''black sand beaches'', geothermal areas, and hot springs to yourself!''Iceland in December''Do you love that snowy, Christmas filled, cheerful time of the year? Well, then the best time to visit Iceland for you is in December. This really falls under “Iceland in winter,” but I didn’t want to start this whole post with December and confuse everyone! Christmas is huge in Iceland so you will definitely not miss out on the holiday cheer if you choose to vacation in Iceland in December.''The whole city of Reykjavik will be lit with Christmas lights, Santa Clauses\xa0are scattered throughout the city and the snow will be in full force. Oh yeah, and don’t forget about December 31st when the city comes alive for the New Year celebrations. European Christmas season is fabulous, this is a great time to go to Iceland!''December is also the darkest time of the year. Days only last a couple of hours so you will really have to make the most of your sunlight. However, with long nights this is the best time to visit Iceland for Northern Lights. Average temperatures range from -1°C and -5°C so make sure to''bring a jacket'', gloves, scarf, boots, and a hat. I wouldn’t recommend waiting till you get to Iceland to buy them, as it will be double what you are used to paying.''My Suggestion?''In the end, you decide the best time to visit Iceland and what you would like as a traveler. Is it your''honeymoon in Iceland''or are you looking to take a break from the desk job? Would you like to see the leaves changing in the fall or does hanging out in a t-shirt in Downtown Reykjavik park suit your fashion?''In my opinion, the best months to holiday in Iceland are''July'',''October'', or''December''.''If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''”''Read Next:''Happy Campers Review: The Best Camper Van Company in Iceland?''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''Camping in Iceland? Here are 25 Iceland Ring Road Trip Tips''A First Timer’s Guide To Iceland Groceries & Supermarkets''What to Pack for Iceland All Year Round''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''When is the Best Time to Visit Iceland? The Honest Truth''was last modified:''May 2nd, 2018''by''Natasha''It’s tough to argue with the appeal of Edinburgh as it’s one of the most''stunning cities in all of Europe''. The Scottish capital is packed with a long and dark history. The city center is split in two between the jumble of medieval buildings in old town and the perfectly lined Georgian buildings of New Town. The city in many ways is a mess, but a beautiful one at that! It’s brimming with class, tourist sites, and character. I assure you there is no shortage of things to do in Edinburgh.''The city is one of many contrasts that offers everything from''world-class art festivals''to fine dining, rowdy pubs,\xa0designer shops, comedians, luxury hotels, and hip coffee shops. It’s almost impossible for any visitor to have the same experience or opinion of Edinburgh. We tried our best to enjoy a bit of it all, but like all visitors, we’ll definitely have to return someday with more time.''We break down our favorite things to do here from tourist staples, shops, coffee shops, bars, and historical monuments. This is what we loved in Edinburgh and what we suggest for a good intro to Scotland’s capital city.''Things To Do In Edinburgh''Explore on Foot''What we love about Edinburgh is that it is compact and walkable. The city center is packed with shops, sights, restaurants, and history all within walking distance so there is no need to use public transport when exploring the city. Instead hit the pavement and go explore the nooks and crannies of Edinburgh up close.''Climb Calton Hill''If you’re looking for the best view of Edinburgh then head up to Calton Hill. The small monument is an iconic staple of Edinburgh’s skyline and can be seen throughout the city. The hill may be smaller than Arthur’s Seat, but it’s centrally located and only a five minute walk up. This makes for an intimate viewpoint that is easy to reach. If it’s a beautiful day, our suggestion is to watch the sunset on the city from up here.''Get artsy at the\xa0National Gallery of Scotland''The''National Gallery of Scotland''has one of the best collections of artwork in the city. We’re big fans of art and the galleries house all forms of work spanning over millennia. While it’s easy to make a jest of modern works of abstract art, the expression and freedom of art in the modern era is something to be celebrated.''Climb the Scott Monument''If there was one sight in Edinburgh that we had to visit it was the Scott Monument. The monument to author Sir Walter Scott makes a cameo in Tasha’s favorite movie, Cloud Atlas. We think it’s one of the''best movies in the last decade''and the monument is a pivotal setting in the film. The 287 steps to the top of the monument are another great place to take in views of the city.''Go on a Ghost Tour''Edinburgh is packed with a long and bloody history so there is hardly a better place in the world to go on a spooky ghost tour. \xa0Your tour guide meets you at the Mercat Cross before taking you on a journey into Edinburgh brutal and historic past. The tour even descends into the underground and you’ll feel the chills roll down your spine as you hear stories about the residents who still remain.''Book a tour here!''Hit The Royal Mile''The aptly named Royal Mile is a mile long street that cuts through the center of the old town and ends at the Edinburgh Castle. It’s more or less the tourist thoroughfare. It’s always buzzing with people and buskers as it’s lined with pubs, overpriced gift shops, and restaurants. \xa0The cobblestoned street is home to a number of other things to do in Edinburgh and we often found ourselves walking along the street throughout the day.''Picnic in the Meadows''This large public park to the South of the city is the perfect place to have a picnic. We spent a few hours here relaxing one afternoon and found it filled mostly with local Scotts walking their dogs, playing football, or going for a run.''Catch an old film''This is a classic cinema and the perfect way to spend an evening in Edinburgh. It’s been referred to as one of the best cinemas in the world to catch a flick and is the oldest cinema in Edinburgh. They show a mix of blockbuster, indie releases, and classics. Check out what’s on''the big screen here''!''Photograph the Dome''This bar and restaurant has to be seen! Although meals and drinks here fetch a high price the interior is decadent and amazing. It’s been open for over two decades now and is now considered an institution in the city often filled locals and tourists alike. The stunning domed ceiling in the Grill Room with a large circular bar is sure to wow anyone.''Catch a play''The Traverse Theatre is known for putting on some of the best shows in Scotland. It has bestowed upon itself the title of “Scotland’s New Writing Theatre,” and is the place to go if you’re looking to a new play. Within the theatre, you should also check out''Dine for drinks and dinner''. They serve up some innovative cocktails that rotate with the seasons and serve a wonderful a pre-theatre set meal that doesn’t break the bank.''Stroll around Leith''This waterfront suburb is a hit with locals. It has a number of cute cafes with outdoor seating and a number of restaurants, including a Michelin starred fine dining restaurant. It’s also the home of the Royal ship, Britannia. The floating palace is still owned by the Royal family and it’s a popular tourist attraction. However, after visiting the''Castle of Mey on the North Coast 500''we decided to give it a skip.''Have a wee dram of Whisky''First off its “''Whisky”'', not''whiskey.''The difference in spelling was invented by the Irish in a bid to differentiate themselves from Scotch when selling to the American market. There are a wealth of bars, shops, and tours that specialize in the famed Scottish drink. We stuck to the cocktail bars in Edinburgh, but did manage to sample Balblair, Dalmore, The Singleton, Talisker Storm, and Lagavulin.''Our picks? I personally love the smokiness of peat from Islay whiskys and would choose the Lagavulin (rejoice Parks & Rec fans!), while Natasha would go with a 15 year Dalmore from the renowned distiller. Another great whisky is Talisker Storm from the Isle of Skye.''Talisker Storm and the Isle of Skye''Make sure to see the Grassmarket district''Historically, this square pedestrian area was the cattle market and where public executions regularly took place. The area is now filled with a number of pubs, hotels, restaurants, and shops. Including one of the best vintage shops, we found in the city,''W Armstrong & Son''.''Take a photo of Greyfriars Bobby''It may be a''small statue of a dog,''but it’s regarded as one of the most iconic parts of Edinburgh. In fact, the local municipality has given it the same protected status as the Castle of Edinburgh. The statue is dedicated to a Skye terrier who waited for his owner at his grave for years after he passed. It’s worth passing by, but please don’t touch his nose like so many tourists feel the need to do so. (Must we ruin everything?!)''Have a coffee at Elephant House Cafe''Harry Potter fans rejoice because Edinburgh has plenty of things to keep you entertained. The most important is''Elephant House Cafe''where J.K. Rowling penned much of the first book. Visitors have turned the cafe into an attraction with Harry Potter paraphernalia.''Enjoy Princes Street Gardens''This lovely park is the calm in the middle of a busy city. At one point it was even a Loch where most of the cities water and sewage came and went. Now, it’s been drained for over a century and serves as a lovely place to relax or enjoy any of the cities many festivals or their famed Christmas market.''Catch a Festival''Edinburgh hosts a slew of world-class festivals year round. It’s likely everyone has heard of their most famous, The Fringe, which is considered the largest art festival in the world. However, there is a lot more to the city than that!''We were lucky enough to ring in the New Year at''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay''and it was easily one of our best New Year’s Eve celebrations to date. The last day of the year is referred to Hogmanay in Gaelic. Every year people from around the world and Scots gather together in Edinburgh to ring in the New Year at an impressive festival. It’s a three-day celebration and involves concerts, fireworks, street parties, torchlight procession, and a dip in the freezing cold Firth of Forth at the Loony Dook.''Listen to the Bagpipers''If you’re looking to hear the famous Scottish instrument you won’t have to look hard. There are performers all over the city offering visitors a chance to listen to them blow. We found they tend to jockey for several spots in the city considered to be the best. Two of the best spots to find them are at the end of the Royal Mile in front of Camera Obscura and between the Scottish National Gallery and The Royal Scottish Academy.''Have a drink at the Printing Press''The bar and restaurant are a part of''The Principal Hotel On George Street''and deliver on the atmosphere. They serve up some of the best cocktails in the city and the hip bar is was buzzing on a Friday night. It tends to pack in an older and hipper crowd as cocktails are around 10 GBP.''Take the train to North Berwick''This charming seaside town makes for a great escape from the city. It’s really easy to hit multiple destinations outside the city with Scotrail. It’s about a 30 minute train ride away from Edinburgh Waverly and is a nice break from the hustle and bustle of the city. Our day in North turned out to be one of our favorite days in Scotland, and all we did was walk around the beach and enjoy the sound of the seagulls. The town has a number of lovely shops, restaurants, and a wonderful cafe where we enjoyed a tasty brunch.''Take to the water with the Scottish Seabird Center''The center helps manage a number of habitats along the Scottish coast, one them being Bass Rock. It is home to one of the largest bird colonies in the world. In all our time in Scotland, it was one of the most incredible things we have seen. The island rises out of the sea in dramatic cliffs that are home to nearly 150,000''gannet birds.''Sir David Attenborough has named it one of the greatest wildlife spectacles in the world. We may not have as much experience as him, but we’ve had''some amazing wildlife experiences already''.''And now, a video of Edinburgh for you!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''15 Things to Know Before You Tackle Scotland’s North Coast 500''What to Pack for Your Trip to Scotland''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''20 Fun Things to do in Edinburgh on Your First Trip''was last modified:''February 24th, 2018''by''Cameron''A camper van in Iceland is the key to a successful Ring Road trip. With any trip, the key is to pick the right provider, tour operator, hotel, and activity. For our trip, we chose''Happy Campers''and could not have been happier. They have one of the best reputations for campervan rentals in Iceland and it’s easy to understand why after renting a from them.''Campervans are something that should be simple.''They’re an economical way to travel Iceland as they combine your transportation and accommodation. However, that doesn’t mean they’re cheap – just affordable! Iceland is one of the most expensive countries to travel and you want to make sure your dollars go as far as they can.''Happy Campers''Happy Campers was one of the first companies to offer kitted rental vans in Iceland starting in 2009. It may not seem that long ago, but since 2009 a lot has changed. It’s brought about dozens of new companies including familiar faces like corporate car rental giants offering their own version of a camper van.''Happy Campers is still family run by Icelanders''and you can find the whole family involved. We were checked out by the Sverrir or the “Happy Boss.” While his son was responsible for setting up our booking and another picked us up from the airport. They’re very much a family business and something we really appreciate.''The Happy 2''Our van came with everything we could need for a camping trip around Iceland.''The Happy 2 is one of their larger model camper vans''and can drive four people and sleep two. With only two of us\xa0on the trip, we had plenty of space for our ten day trip around the Ring Road. If you plan on camping around Iceland like us''these are our top Ring Road trip tips''.''The Happy 2 is a manual transmission Renault Trafic which is a larger van, but it is manageable. I had no problems driving the vehicle. Music is important on any road trip and the vehicle has an MPS CD player with a USB/auxiliary input to hook up your phone so you can play all your''travel music!''A feature we loved is the flat rate WiFi for a €40 add-on you receive WiFi in the vehicle for the entirety of your trip.''It’s equipped with a dual battery system that allows for you to have a running fridge and heater. The heater fan operates off of the battery while the heat is generated by burning diesel fuel in your tank. The vehicle is equipped with a solar panel on the top to ensure it stays charged.''A welcome feature of the vehicle is the inclusion of CDW insurance. This combined''with the insurance our credit cards''carry gave us some peace of mind while driving on Iceland’s roads.''Our Happy Kitchen''Our Happy Camper van came equipped with everything we needed to make a basic meal. The kitchen boxes were equipped with a pot, pan, and a full set of dishes for four. You’re also given a camping stove with four bottles of Butane (more than enough for our 10 days camping).''A large cubby system with drawers had enough room to store all of our dry food and cooking utensils. It offered enough cooking space to prep basic meals and cook, but in the summertime, I would opt for a table and chairs outside for more room. Each vehicle also includes a sink with running water. Water is easy to find in Iceland as almost every gas station has hoses to wash your vehicle and top up water tanks.''They offer a few extras such as a grill, picnic table, coffee press, and chairs. Since we traveled in the Fall with low temperatures and we’re not big meat eater we didn’t add the grill or picnic table. However, in the summer months, I’m sure they’re an awesome addition to your trip.''A Happy Bedtime''The bed was more than large enough for the two of us! The bed converts from the back seats that fold flat. When not made it provides plenty of seating space to relax, eat dinner, and watch a movie. Come bedtime it’s easy\xa0to\xa0convert and takes less than a minute to set up your bed.''We found the bed to be a little firm and uncomfortable. So, it’s recommend you bring a''camping pad''and a''cheap comforter''to make the bed your own. A welcome feature is a heater at night, in the Fall and Spring temperatures often dip below freezing so a cozy van is amazing!''A Few Camper Van Tips''If you haven’t yet head over to our comprehensive post about our time on the''Ring Road and camping tips there''.''Check our guides if you’re planning on doing the''Golden Circle''or''Reynisfjara black sand beach.''The WiFi operates when the car is running. Once the van is switched off you get about 30 minutes of surfing. So, download some movies for the\xa0night or bring a great book! We streamed movies with a''Tep wireless device''.''Don’t wear shoes in the back of the vehicle, it can get dirty fast. They provide a dustpan and brush so make sure to use it often.''If you’re like us bring your favorite coffee roast and an''aeropress''Make sure to check the weather forecast and''pack the right clothes for Iceland''.''Stick to simple one pot meals. It makes for an easy preparation and cleans up. Also make sure you get all your food from the''Icelandic grocery stores.''Restaurants are really expensive in Iceland.''Don’t fret over a shower! Icelandic swimming pools are affordable and a wonderful experience. Just be prepared for casual nudity! Check out our other''Iceland travel tips for more info.''Our Overall Experience''We had a great time''with our Happy Camper''and feel it really gave us the freedom we wanted to explore Iceland on our time. It’s something we all want when exploring the great outdoors.''They picked us up from the airport and had our vehicle ready and waiting. It was an easy pick up (and drop off) and we were on the road in less than an hour. A quick stop at an''Icelandic grocery store''and we were off to explore the country! Our journey around the country took 10 days and it felt like the perfect amount of time. Just enough time to fall into the rhythm of things, but not too long to curse living in a van!''Although, many are bummed to learn you can only stay in campsites we found a plethora around the country. In the low season months, many shut down, but leave their basic facilities open and allow for free camping. This took off some of the stress of making it to an open campsite by nightfall, as we don’t really like driving at night.\xa0Each day we’d wake up in a new spot and make our way on our own time. Some days we covered a lot of ground while other days we only drove 100km because we stopped so frequently to go for hikes, relax, or take photographs.''Book Your Camper Van!''Use the key''TWP''to retrieve your one-time''discount code of 5% off your rental total here.''The idea of a campervan is to disconnect and make some beautiful memories. Our memory had to be watching the Northern Lights from our “bedroom,” something we would not have experienced based in Reykjavik. What is going to be your memory in Iceland?''Happy Campers vs. Go Campers vs. Kuku Campers''The companies break down into three steps in our opinion. Happy Campers is likely the nicest company in Iceland, but their rentals also fetch the highest price than their closest competitor.''Go Campers''comes in right behind Happy Campers with a similar design and price point. They’ve clearly taken a close look at Happy Campers and emulated their design making use of fridges, heaters, and running sinks in their vehicles.''Kuku Campers''are extremely popular and the largest company in Iceland, but they’re also pretty budget. Their cheaper models can be older cars with no heaters, kitchenware, or bedding.''Should You Book a Happy Camper?''Yes! Of course, we’re a little biased as we had a great time. However, the company is well run and they so clearly want their customers to have a great time. Above all, we only find glowing Happy Campers customer’s reviews online. This is how we know we’re not a fluke of having a good time in one of their camper vans. We even met two separate people in their vans who had booked for a second time because their first trip to Iceland was that great!''Book Your Camper Van!''Use the key''TWP''to retrieve your one-time''discount code of 5% off your rental total here.''Read Next:''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''What to Pack for Iceland All Year Round''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''Best Time to Visit Iceland • Don’t Let the Weather Ruin Your Trip''The Black Sand Beach in Iceland: All You Need to Know about Reynisfjara''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''Full Disclosure''We work with travel companies that will make a great fit for our blog. It requires preliminary research, countless emails, planning, travel, and then producing the content you see on our blog and social media. Some companies are great, some are good, and two have been bad – neither of those two are on our blog.\xa0Happy Campers in Iceland falls into the category of great.''In full disclosure, Happy Campers provided us with a free rental and we covered everything else (insurance, gas, flights, food, and campsites). The links in this post are affiliates and that means we receive a commission when you book through the link. It allows for our site to continue to run (''it cost $3,500 a year just to run!'') and for us to continue to make travel content.''Furthermore, we were not required by any means to write this post as part of an agreement. We spend a lot of time researching articles and found that people consistently ask questions about camper van companies in Iceland on TripAdvisor, Thorntree, Reddit, and Facebook. This post is here to best serve those looking to have a''great camping trip in Iceland like we did''.''Happy travels!''Melbourne is one of the most exciting cities to visit in Australia. The buzzing city has nightlife, a great food scene, festivals galore, and outdoor activities. It is tough to hate on the city. I will never regret booking a''spontaneous flight to Melbourne''years ago. I can’t wait to go back with Cameron and experience all the romantic things to do in Melbourne. Here is what’s on my list for next time!''10 Romantic Things to do in Melbourne''Bet against each other at the Melbourne Cup''The Melbourne Cup is the biggest and most acclaimed horse race in Australia. Each November thousands of people from all over the world flock to''Flemington Racecourse''to watch\xa0Thoroughbred horses compete in the “the race that stops a nation”. When I''studied abroad in Australia''six years ago I made a special effort to get to this\xa0prestigious horse race. It’s the perfect thing to do with your special\xa0someone and is also a great activity for group dates!''Have a laugh together at comedy club''What is better than enjoying a few laughs with one another. Melbourne is a great city to hit up a local comedy club in! There are dozens scattered throughout the city so no matter what night of the week it is you should always be able to find a show. The Butterfly Club, The Comic’s Lounge, and Local Laughs are among some of my favorites in the city. If you’re in the city in April make sure to check out the''International Comedy Festival''!''Catch a show at the Astor Theatre''The Astor Theatre is one of the most iconic theatres in Australia. It is old, grand, and exactly what you think of when you picture the art houses back in the 1930’s. I love the romance of the era! So, catching a show here is sure to be a fun night out for you and your partner.\xa0 Something else that’s pretty cool, the Astor Theater is one of the only\xa0single-screen movie theatres from the 1930s in the world.''Enjoy the views from Naked in the Sky''Naked in the Sky is a hip restaurant/bar with a beautiful terrace that allows amazing views of the city.\xa0 Located in Fitzroy, it’s a great place to come for a first date as it allows you and your date to connect with stunning views. Of course, with any rooftop bar in a metropolitan\xa0city drinks aren’t cheap here, so head somewhere else for dinner if you are on a budget.''Have a cheap date night in Chinatown''Speaking of dinner and budgets why not head to Chinatown for a fun date night? Everyone knows how amazing''New York’s Chinatown district is'', but the Melbourne Chinatown is just as authentic. Melbourne’s Chinatown dates back to the Australian Gold Rushes of the 1850s, and according to their website is the “longest continuous Chinese settlement in the western world.” This is where I first came to get a cheap meal in Melbourne and was overwhelmed with the options of Chinese restaurants to choose.''Hit up a festival''There is''always''something going on in Melbourne. The city is widely regarded as being one the best places for festivals in the world. At any time of the year, you can enjoy film festivals, art festivals, jazz festivals, comedy festivals, and more! I personally love going to cultural festivals with Cameron (we are travel bloggers after all), and couldn’t think of a more fun way to spend a day in the city.''Check out the full festival schedule here!''Have some fun in Luna Park''Luna Park is Australia’s oldest amusement park and is over a century old! A day here is definitely one of the most romantic things to do in Melbourne and is only a short drive away from the city. Take your date to St. Kilda and get on one of the numerous roller coasters in the whole park. Tickets are $50 AUD per person for a day of fun!''Get up in the air on a hot air balloon ride''This one may be a bit up there, but it is one of the most unique and romantic things you can do in Melbourne! Global Ballooning Australia will take you high up over the city at sunrise so that you can see it like never before! Afterwards, you can even opt for a 5 star buffet breakfast and champaign at Pullman on the Park.''Side note:''We went on a hot air balloon ride in Kenya and it was epic''.''Enjoy the sun at St. Kilda’s Beach''Yep, just outsides Victoria’s capital city you can enjoy a romantic day at the beach. St. Kilda is an oasis for outdoor and beach activities. If you’re in need of some sun you can go to St. Kilda to kiteboard, play beach volleyball, cycle or rollerblade the promenade, or stand up paddleboard!''Sing Karaoke\xa0together''Break the ice and head to one of Melbourne’s fantastic karaoke bars together! Who doesn’t love jamming out to “Thriller,” “Backstreets Back,” or even better and more fitting, “''Down Under''“? Some great karaoke bars in the city include Jankara Karaoke, KBOX Karaoke, and Party World Karaoke.''Get active''The Melbourne Heritage Walk trail is an active and free activity to do with your partner. Commencing at\xa0Flinders Street and ending on Little Lonsdale Street this one hour walk will take you through some of the oldest streets and buildings in Melbourne.''Check out the full walk route here''.''Above all, after you''book your flight''just remember to enjoy your time in Melbourne. It’s a fantastic city!''Read More''The Seven Best Hostels in Australia to Stay At''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''10 Romantic Things to do in Melbourne''November 4, 2017''The 15 Best Places to Visit in October in the World''August 28, 2017''The Seven Best Hostels in Australia to Stay At''July 23, 2017''10 Romantic Things to do in Melbourne''was last modified:''November 8th, 2017''by''Natasha''An''Iceland''honeymoon is sure to get you and your partner excited. The Nordic country may not have the beaches of Hawaii or the Bahamas, but it is so much more!\xa0Iceland is a land that is just waiting to be uncovered. Intimate hot springs, beautiful glaciers, majestic wildlife, and striking waterfalls come together in this Scandinavian\xa0island and it is sure to dazzle any traveler, especially those looking for romance on their honeymoon (who isn’t?).''Expedia.com asked me to share this post with you guys as we both have a love for Iceland! There is no right or wrong time to enjoy your Iceland honeymoon. Summer months yield 24-hours of daylight from the “Midnight Sun,” and long winter months provide a dark sky for the Aurora Borealis. Either way you look at it, you’re in for a special and unique treat in''the picturesque country of Iceland''. I’ve been to Iceland twice now, once alone and together as a couple with Cameron. Our latest trip was driving around the''incredible ring road''to uncover all the nooks and crannies of the country. Here are some of my favorite things to do for a romantic honeymoon in Iceland.''15 Incredible Iceland Honeymoon Ideas''Enjoy the Black Sand Beaches''Black beaches aren’t something seen every day. However, when touring around Iceland’s Southern Coast there are a few spots to see the dramatic black sand beaches. Reynisfjara, near Vik is probably the most well known''black sand beach in Iceland''. That means it is packed with tourists.''We went in the offseason''and were still amazed at how many people were on the beach. I would recommend visiting the East Fjords if you have the time. We thought the Egilsstaðir region was stunning and yielded far fewer crowds, which is exactly what you want on an Iceland honeymoon.''Check out the wildlife at Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon''It’s hard to deny that there are many gems in Iceland, but Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon in the southeast of the country has to be the one of the most beautiful. We spent 12 days in Iceland, and I think that the Jökulsárlón lagoon was the most spectacular location we saw. You can get out and enjoy the beauty from the side, or you can hop on a boat tour to get more up close to the glacier. If you are in for an adventure and traveling during the winter a great thing to do on your Iceland honeymoon would be to go on an ice caving tour in the nearby Vatnajökull glacier. Whatever you do, the lagoon is always changing, so no two trips will ever be the same.''I would advise bringing''some binoculars''and a''travel camera''as there are often seals swimming in the lagoon (we saw five!). After you are done make sure to go across the street to Diamond Beach to hold an Icelandic ice cube! Or eat one like Cameron…''Tackle the Ice and Climb a Glacier''While you’re at Jökulsárlón, you may as well''conquer the biggest glacier in Europe''(Vatnajökull glacier) nearby!\xa0This challenging experience is one of Iceland’s most memorable. We suggest any active traveler to strap on some crampons and prepare to climb a massive glacier with mesmerizing views. It’s not the expansive landscape that is will steal your breath away, but when you enter the ice caves within the glacier. What’s better than telling your friends back home you went ice climbing in Iceland?''Have a date night in Reykjavik''A honeymoon in Iceland will be expensive. It is one of the most expensive countries in the world and the high costs are reflected in the food and alcohol.\xa0 However, when you are in one of the coolest capital cities in the world I would suggest at least having one or two special nights out in Reykjavik. There is a thriving bar and restaurant scene that’s vibrant on weekends and summer months. The best food we had in Reykjavik was at Matarkjallarinn. It’s a central and upscale restaurant that serves up modern Icelandic cuisine. They have live music or a pianist playing every night and on weekends the cocktail bar here is packed with patrons for a lively atmosphere.''There is almost a bar on every corner of the capital so it won’t be hard to find a good one. Many offer happy hour specials so make sure to do your research and get there a little bit early for a deal. Keep in mind that the sun never sets during the Icelandic summer so when you walk out of the bar at 2 am you may be just a little bit confused.''Drive Iceland’s Ring Road''This one involves renting a car (''or campervan like us!'') and is the ideal thing to do if you have longer than seven days for you Iceland honeymoon. However, it is hands down the best adventure you can have in Iceland and will ensure you get the absolute most out of your trip. Iceland’s famous ring road connects the whole country in a…well… a ring. The road is one road technically called “Route one” and is approximately 1332 km. Along the route, you’ll find glaciers, a million waterfalls, winding roads, and just a few of the Icelandic horses.''A drive around the ring road with your own car gives you the freedom to stop where and when you want without any time limits. It’s what allowed us to spend hours at''Skógafoss, take a detour to the Snaefellsnes peninsula, and camp out under the Northern Lights. You can either rent a car and stay at hotels, camp in a tent at campsites along the way or take your house with you in a''Happy Camper Van.''Either way, the trip is iconic and is sure to give you lots of honeymoon memories to share together.''We loved our''Happy Campers''and highly recommend renting a campervan to get around the country. We loved it so much we are going to give you guys 5% off your Happy Camper. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Descend into a Volcano''What’s more romantic than going inside a volcano in Iceland together? Inside Þríhnúkagígur you will descend 120 meters into a\xa0gigantic chamber, only to be overcome by shimmering hues of pink, blues, and oranges. The colors inside Þríhnúkagígur are sure enough to dazzle any visitor. The dormant volcano is accessible only accessible with a guided tour.''Practice your Horse Riding skills''You know how most people take romantic horseback rides on the beach? You should try riding Icelandic horses\xa0through the wild countryside. Icelandic horses are small in comparison to other horses you may be used to, but they have a very distinctive gait style that makes riding them exceptionally smooth. The “''Tölt''” is one of the five gaits of an Icelandic horse and is what makes this breed so different than any other on earth.\xa0The''Tölt''is a natural, fluid gait where at least one foot is always touching the ground. The horses are known for being well natured and strong horses, not to mention beautiful. How can you not love that hair?''We went on a two-hour horse riding adventure together with Hestasport near Varmahlid.\xa0It was an amazing time and a chance to learn about Icelandic horse culture. Our guide was very professional and made us feel natural on a horse we had never been on before. Together with our Icelandic horses, we were able to conquer the Iceland countryside and flowing rivers.''Get Out and Hike''Looking for a quick break from the city life while staying in Reykjavik? There are plenty of challenging, yet magnificent hikes to stretch your legs. The best part is you don’t have to travel far to get to them! Esjan, Glymur, Hveragerði, Gjáin, Seljavallalaug are all located within an hour of Reykjavik and are accessible by public transport (and of course two feet). All of these hikes are well worth a day in my opinion; however, the climb up Esjan is a favorite. Once at the top you are\xa0rewarded with a stunning view of Reykjavik.''Of course, if you are able to get outside the city the walking and hiking opportunities are endless. We specifically enjoyed hiking around the Husafell region when we stayed in the beautiful''Hotel Husafell''in Northern Iceland. This is where the''fall foliage''really comes alive! Always prepare yourself for a hike and tell someone your plans. The weather conditions in Iceland can be extreme and unpredictable and you don’t want to get caught in a bad situation on your honeymoon.''Cozy Up in a Hot Spring''Iceland may be short of McDonald’s, palm trees, and Starbucks, but it does certainly not fall short in the hot spring category. All over the country hot springs and geysers can be found and they are idealistic spots to take a warm (or incredibly hot) dip in. Don’t forget some local beer and a''swimsuit for Icelandic pools''! Visitors can visit the''famous Blue Lagoon'', but we personally don’t recommend that. The admission prices to get into this unnatural lagoon are sky high and it is a tourist trap.''There are plenty of natural hot springs around the country that are free to enjoy and more romantic without all the tourists. There are also geothermal pools in almost every town in Iceland. The local pools are great for swimming and some hot tubs. The pools are where the locals go to get active and socialize so you may even get to know a few Icelanders while visiting one!''Be Awestruck by the Northern Lights''The Northern Lights, or the Aurora Borealis, are one of the greatest spectacles on earth! In\xa0the winter months, from late September to early April, the Northern Lights are\xa0visible from all over\xa0Iceland. Just make sure to get out to the countryside and pack a tripod for photographs to capture the most beautiful hues\xa0of the green, pink, purple, and yellow. Jökulsárlón is a very popular place to come during winter months and view the spectacle and is where we spotted the Northern Lights at their best. You can check the''Aurora forecast here!''Drive the Golden Circle''For those that don’t have the time to do the whole ring road then I would at least recommend taking a day for a''Golden Circle trip''. The Golden Circle is a popular 300-kilometer route to looping around Reykjavik. The drive only takes a day and along the route, you can find some of the best of Iceland’s beauty. Þingvellir National Park, Gullfoss\xa0waterfall, and\xa0the geysers\xa0Geysir\xa0and\xa0Strokkur are the main hits of the Golden Circle. You can also see the\xa0Kerið volcanic''crater and the hot river nearby too.''Like many things in Iceland car rentals can be expensive. Gas is $8 a gallon! However, the most popular form of''travel in Iceland''is via a tour. The tour will be sure to get you to the best sites on the Golden Circle with none of the stress of driving yourself. Not to mention you won’t miss one of the highlights for lack of knowing!''Hit the slopes''In the winter time, Iceland becomes a ski or snowboarding fanatics playground. Iceland has a few different ski resorts around the country so if you are into winter sports Iceland is a great skiing destination. We personally love snowboarding, but we really weren’t there at the right time of year. For those that visit January through April check out ski resorts near Reykjavik, Akureyri, and Husavik. Or for the truly adventurous you can check out helicopter skiing in Northern Iceland.''Chase waterfalls''There are waterfalls all over Iceland. I can’t give you an exact number as many glaciers will melt and form small waterfalls that feed the rivers. That being said, we can direct you to a few of the more notable ones:''Goðafoss:\xa0waterfall of the gods in the Northeast''Háifoss: A bit off the beaten track, but one of the highest in Iceland''Morsárfoss: Highest waterfall in Iceland''Dettifoss: The most powerful waterfall in Europe''Gullfoss: Along the Golden Circle and one of the most popular falls to visit''Seljalandsfoss: You can stand behind this waterfall''Skógafoss:\xa0unique waterfall that comes directly from two glaciers''Search for puffins''Iceland is one of the best places in the world to spot puffins. If you love birds, then this has to be at the top of your Iceland honeymoon “must-dos” list. There are plenty of places around the country to see puffins. Most notably in Vestmannaeyjar,\xa0Látrabjarg,\xa0Vigur Island,\xa0Papey. If you have a car you can get to these places yourself, or you can hop on a tour and sail just outside of the capital to see them in Akurey, Engey or Lundey. Seeing the puffins is only possible in the summer due to their migration patterns.''Hop on a Snowmobile''To ride on one on top of a glacier in Iceland would really complete an adventurous honeymoon. Snowmobile tours are extremely popular in Iceland and make a great way to get out of the car and actually get even more up close to the incredible glaciers.''General Tips for Iceland''Check here if you’re wondering when is''the best time to visit Iceland!''The local currency is the Icelandic\xa0króna (ISK). ATM’s are\xa0found throughout the country''If you’re doing a backpacking trip through Iceland make sure you have the''proper backpack.''Want to know what’s in the perfect''Iceland packing list?''Icelanders speak Icelandic, but every single person I came across spoke English.''Have I mentioned Iceland is expensive as hell? Well, it is! Save money by eating in and cooking for yourself. Check out our''Iceland grocery store guide''for all the tips!''Iceland is one of the safest countries in the world; however, it’s important to use common sense when walking alone at night.''The water is delicious in Iceland, but in case you are still feeling funny get a''waterbottle that allows you to drink any water safely.''Tipping is not customary in Iceland''.''Iceland has strong Internet\xa0infrastructure''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Iceland''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partner’s below''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance and World Nomads offers great prices and coverage.''Rent a Campervan'': We loved our''Happy Campers''and highly recommend renting a campervan to get around the country. We loved it so much we are going to give you guys 5% off your Happy Camper. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through those wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Remember that Iceland uses the''Europlug.''You May Also Like:''A First Timer’s Guide To Iceland Grocery Stores & Supermarkets''What to Pack for Iceland All Year Round''How Much Does Backpacking Europe Cost?''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Happy Campers Review: The Best Camper Van Company in Iceland? (+Coupon!)''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''I traveled to Iceland four years ago. It was the third time I had traveled alone and was my very first stop on my world tour after college graduation. After booking the cheapest flight I could to Reykjavik and Couchsurfing my way around the capital city I realized I really hadn’t seen much of the country. I made a classic mistake of only basing myself in a capital city and later regretted it.''So when we recently had the chance to visit Iceland we jumped at it. Iceland is a land full of natural, raw, and untouched beauty. It’s a place that doesn’t even look real, which is probably why so many movies have been''filmed there in recent years''.''To make the most out of a trip to Iceland and getting to these rugged destinations I suggest camping Iceland’s ring road. A road trip to Iceland is the perfect way to get to know the land.\xa0 Here are a few tips to help with your planning and preparation.''Rent a vehicle''If you want to do any extensive Iceland camping and sightseeing you need to rent a vehicle. The glory of camping is the ability to explore and spend some time in nature. This freedom is lost on a group tour of the''Golden Circle''or Ring Road.''We suggest you rent a campervan with''Happy Campers'', that is how we camped around Iceland in comfort. It will save you from the hassle and cost of booking hotels individually or having to set up a tent every night. We loved it so much we are able to offer our readers 5% off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''”''Our campervan from Happy Campers was perfect for what we wanted out of our trip. It provided great freedom and comfort at a reasonably affordable cost. A campervan will serve as your transportation, accommodation, and kitchen for your trip to Iceland – which is pretty much all you need.''Book your campervan here!''Use the key''TWP''to retrieve your one-time''discount code of 5% off your rental total here.''You can’t camp just anywhere''We came to Iceland expecting to pull up to waterfalls, cliffs, and oceans and camp at Iceland’s most stunning locations. We had our own gas stove and kitchenware, could shower at public pools, and use public toilets. We’d wake up at every destination with one of those killer #vanlife shots. We should have done more research. It is now the law that all campervans must have written permission to camp on the property, or in other words, a receipt from a designated campsite.''Given the explosion of tourism in Iceland, it was bound to happen. There are just too many tourists and campervans parking all over the country to allow anarchy. The''legislation is targeted at vehicles and land rights'', not specifically tents or camping. You can still pitch a traditional tent in the Iceland wilderness, but that means you have to be on foot.''There are plenty of campsites around Iceland. Most of these campsites provide basic facilities like a toilet, shower, communal area, and maybe if you’re lucky some WiFi. Campsites in Iceland charge between 1000-2000 ISK per person per night. If you are traveling between October and May you may find many campsites are closed. Don’t worry too much because a number of the sites allow you to camp for free in the offseason, with the lack of facilities as they’re locked.''Gas is hella expensive''I thought I was only going to have one heart attack this year when we paid $2 a liter for fuel in the''middle of nowhere Zimbabwe''. We just hadn’t traveled through Iceland yet. Fuel in Iceland is expensive at about $2 a liter – that’s roughly''$8 a gallon''for all my American friends out there!''If you want to save what you can on the fuel then opt for a fuel-efficient vehicle. If you’re traveling in a campervan or 4×4 like us be prepared to buck up and pay. We spent''$400 on fuel''to drive our campervan around the country for 10 days. Check out our Iceland ring road trip itinerary (plus some detours).''So is everything else…''If you came to Iceland for a cheap trip then you are in the wrong country,''but I’m sure you knew that already''.''Just about everything in''Iceland is crazy expensive''. Accommodation and food are exorbitant, heck even a cup of coffee from a machine can run you close to $6. So make sure to budget for your ring road trip accordingly''.''Don’t just stick to Iceland’s Ring Road''Some of Iceland’s best sites and attractions are not on the ring road. We suggest looking up the sites you want to see online and through guidebooks. Once you have an idea what you want to see, save it all to an offline Google Map.\xa0Regions that are worth mentioning not on the ring road are the Snaefellsnes peninsula, Landmannalaugar, Husafell, and Dettifoss. Everyone also recommended that we travel and camp in Iceland’s Western Fjords, as they are the least traveled place in the country. We, unfortunately, didn’t have the time to make the most of that detour.''Ditch the GPS''While we are on the subject of Google Maps – don’t bother with paying for a car GPS. Instead, download an offline Google Map on your phone. You can do this via their app. If you’re unsure how to do this''check out Google’s tutorial''.''We download offline maps everywhere we travel and it rarely leads us astray. Just be warned it may eat up some space on your phone memory, but it’s well worth not getting lost and knowing where you are going. It’s the most efficient way to plan your routes in between campsites.''But get the WiFi''Our''Happy Campervan''had built-in\xa0WiFi that cost\xa0€40 for the entire rental period. Having WiFi in the car was fantastic for when we wanted to check emails, social media, and browse for''things to see in Iceland.''If the internet is part of your daily life I would highly recommend adding it to your rental.''Allocate enough time for your Ring Road trip''How long should you spend driving the Ring Road? It depends. The Ring Road or “''Route 1''” is''1,332 kilometers'', so technically you could do it in less than 16 hours and never stop – but what’s the point of that? We did our Iceland ring road trip clockwise in 10 days. We felt that it was the perfect amount of time to see all of the main sites.''Sure, we missed some things, but we never felt too rushed or that we hung around for too long in a place. In an ideal world, I would suggest 7-10 days to drive the Ring Road, but we met people doing it in 3-5, which just sounds exhausting.''Learn to love instant coffee!''Are you a coffee or tea drinker like us? You should consider picking up tea and instant coffee at a''grocery store in Iceland''for your trip. Remember when I said Iceland is unimaginably expensive? Well, those costs trickle down to even the coffee and tea so if you want your caffeine it’s best to buy some instant coffee. There is also the option to bring a''French press''or''Aeropress''with your favorite roast from home.''Download a good playlist''You will spend a lot of time in the car so a''good travel playlist''is essential. Download one to your phone before you go so you are ready to roll!''There are no bathrooms!''Aside from the high cost of everything in Iceland, our other complaint with the country is the lack of public restrooms.''There is almost nowhere to do your business''on Iceland’s ring road so plan accordingly. Obviously, hotels will have bathrooms, but outside the Golden Circle tourist stops of Geysir and Gullfoss, we found public bathrooms few and far between. This obviously isn’t a huge problem for number one, but for number two what to do you do?''A good option is to head for gas stations, but you will likely have to buy something. Food and other amenities come with a high price in Iceland gas stations, but it doesn’t hurt to always have a full tank of gas should you not need any knick-knacks.\xa0If you are traveling in the summer most campsite toilets will be open, but you will have to be staying there to use them. The other option is to bring a shovel, dig your hole, and burn your tissue paper which reminded me a bit of our''overland trip across Africa in a way!''But Iceland is not Africa – far from it actually. There are a lot of people on the road, especially in the summer months, meaning it can be difficult to find privacy.''Iceland has seen a boom in tourism in the last 10 years. With massive amounts of tourist dollars flowing into the country, it baffles us that the government or tourism board has done nothing in terms of facilities for actual visiting guests. Instead, locals''choose to shame tourists''that are visiting and''pay for funny videos''to attract more visitors on social media… In case you were wondering the country has a''long history of corruption.''There are 334,000 Icelanders and more than two million tourists (a year)''There is a reason for this huge tourism boom. Yes, Iceland is one of the most stunning countries in the world. That should not be a surprise given the number of photos and video on the internet. We came expecting beauty and surreal locations, and so does everyone else. The''beauty of Iceland is definitely not a secret anymore''. Did you know there are more''American tourists visiting Iceland than Icelandic people?''And that’s just one nationality! Almost everyone we saw while driving around the ring road was a foreigner, and it wasn’t until Reykjavik that we finally found ourselves among the local people.''The sheer number of tourists here may even disappoint you at first glance, especially if you’re traveling during the summer months. I know we kept feeling that there were too many us floating around the country, but then I remembered how many people visit Rome, Thailand, and freaking Disney World each year and the numbers aren’t even comparable.''There are some hidden gems you can get to that are not popular with tourists in Iceland though. Most notably the East and West Fjords, so go ahead and get off the beaten path!''Watch where you step!''One thing you will notice about the landscape in Iceland is the iconic moss. It is everywhere and the locals\xa0cherish it. For good reason too – it’s a fragile part of Iceland’s gorgeous landscape. It’s important not to step on the moss, and god forbid don’t trample it, write your name in it, or pull it up from the ground like''Justin Beiber''. It can take up to 70 years to grow back and make sure to stick to the paths and admire the moss from afar.''This goes for driving down roads as well. Many of the most majestic campsites and regions in the country are down F roads in the center of Iceland. There is no development here and lots of open ground. We witnessed first hand the harmful effects of tourists driving off-road and “having fun” doing donuts in the moss. It’s a sure fire way to end up with heft $5,000 fine if caught or a broken nose from a local.''Drink the water!''Just about everything will cost you money in Iceland, except one thing.''Water''! The water in Iceland is some of the best drinking water in the world so there is never a reason to buy bottled water. Bring a''travel water bottle''and fill up from the taps, rivers, streams, and glaciers – it’s all okay to drink! Seriously, save plastic waste and your money by avoiding any sort of bottled water. The Icelanders will secretly be laughing at you if you spend money on those stupid plastic bottles.''Almost every gas station in Iceland has a tap and hoses for you to clean your car or fill up your campervans water tank. Yes, it is free as well!''Northern Lights = Winter. Midnight Sun = Summer''If you’re going to Iceland for a chance to see the Northern Lights you will need to travel there when it is actually dark. If you are heading to Iceland to see the Midnight Sun then you will have to go camping in the summertime when it is light at midnight.''Northern Lights in Iceland\xa0 =\xa0September to mid-April. Midnight Sun in Iceland =\xa0\xa0May to August.''Just make sure you have a''great packable down jacket''because the winter months can be freezing at night! If you want to learn more about''the best time to visit Iceland we have a post for that''!''Practice proper pool etiquette''Most towns in Iceland have a public swimming pool. It’s considered a public necessity and an important part of Icelandic culture. It is a place where Icelanders get active, relax, and socialize. They aren’t just for locals though, foreigners are welcome too. We made an effort to go to as many swimming pools as possible when camping on the ring road.''Swimming pools entrance fees run between 600-1000 Icelandic Kroner, which is a fraction of the price of a Blue Lagoon or Secret Lagoon ticket.''News Flash –''The Blue Lagoon''and''Secret Lagoon''are just for tourists and Instagram photos anyway.''Public pools are fed by geothermic water. They all will have at least one main pool for swimming and two different hot tubs for relaxing. Some pools even have saunas, ice tubs, water slides, and steam rooms!''When you’re on a camping trip in Iceland you will probably want to shower. We had several instances of campsite without a shower available. That’s not a problem as you can head to the local pool for a hot shower and swim. But…''You Will Need to Get Naked''Speaking of pools in Iceland, you must get naked and wash before you enter a pool. Casual nudity is a normal part of the Scandinavian culture and taking a shower before swimming is the law in Iceland. (''No, seriously it is the law that you must get naked and scrub.'') Showers are divided by sex and they are open air in the locker rooms. The proper way is to undress, lock up your belongings, place your bathing suit and towel in the convenient cubbies, take a shower, put on your bathing suit, and leave your towel behind for when you return to the locker room.''Icelanders take their hygiene very seriously and the pools use minimal chemicals so entering clean is important. If you don’t feel comfortable getting naked in front of others of the same sex then going to a pool in Iceland is not for you. Showering with your swimsuit on, or worse – not showering, will likely get you scowls and maybe even a good scrub from an Icelander in the shower… they’ll do it! There’s no need to be shy and we consider visiting a local pool a must for anyone visiting Iceland.''There are ways to save money''Iceland is one of the most expensive countries to travel, but there are ways you can save money! The first would be not to eat out. A basic meal for two can run about $100 USD at a restaurant. Stick to the grocery stores if you are on a budget. We found Bónus to be the cheapest''grocery store in Iceland''followed by Krónan.''Our campervan had a fridge to keep veggies frozen and milk cool, but depending on when you travel you may not need it. The temperatures in mid-October to be around 1 C at night, if you buy perishable items without a fridge stick them outside while you sleep!''If you want to drink while in Iceland then be sure to either bring your alcohol with you or shop at duty-free before you enter the country, or you may be paying for the most expensive cocktail of your life.''If you travel in a group it will save you money on the car rental and gas. However, campsites charge per person and range from 1000 ISK to 2000 ISK (and some charge an extra 500 ISK if you want to use the shower).''The number one thing to remember is that enjoying nature is free! There are plenty of trails, viewpoints, and waterfalls in Iceland. All of those don’t cost a penny (yet).''Credit cards rule''The country pretty much runs on credit cards and we never once had to pay with cash in Iceland. From the grocery stores to campsites, even bathroom attendants have a credit card machine. You can even pay for an apple at a gas station with a credit card! This is great news for travel hackers like us and helps us rack up some serious travel points. Check out our favorite''travel credit cards''or how we handle''banking while we travel abroad!''Pack smart!''I’ve traveled to Iceland in both the summer and winter, and both times it was pretty windy and cold. I would recommend packing clothes that layer well. Must haves are a good rain jacket and hiking boots. Even in Reykjavik, people dress pretty casually so there isn’t much need to be super fashionable. Pack comfortable, quick drying, and waterproof clothing for a good time.''Read more about what to pack for Iceland here''.''Don’t overestimate your rental!''Rental cars and vans are just that – rentals. They should be treated with care and caution because if you damage the car you will be the one paying for the repairs. Sure, you can always take out insurance in a rental car, but even that doesn’t fully protect you and it is a pricey add-on.''Another thing to mention about that is no car rental insurance will cover you on Iceland’s “F” roads. F roads are cut through the center of the country. They are rough, gravel, mud, and fit for tough 4×4 vehicles with experienced drivers. When we picked up our Happy Camper we were informed that we could not drive on these roads under any circumstances, and most other rentals have the same policy.''We still wanted to get to places like Mount Hekla and Landmannalaugar though, so we decided to go on a tour.''Moonwalker tours''are super fun and personalized for the guest. They’re run by an Icelandic, Bessi, who knows how to tackle the rough terrain. Why am I telling you this? Because on our Moonwalker tour, we saw at least 20 rental cars that were unfit to drive on these rough roads, but tourists had decided to drive on them anyway.''We even came across a car waiting to be picked up after busting their oil pan and overheating the engine. So, they had to wait in the cold for a tow truck only to be stuck with the bill afterward (because they were on an F road). Not only is this foolish, but it’s dangerous as you could easily get stranded in the freezing cold with nowhere to turn. Just stick to the nice paved roads unless you are an experienced driver with a heavy duty vehicle.''Oh, yea – and there is A LOT of wind in Iceland. So hold the door or it could blow right off the hinges – that’s not covered by most insurances either…yes, I’m serious.''Don’t forget to bring a camera!''Everywhere you look on your Iceland ring road trip will be anything but ugly. Make sure to bring something to capture the moment with. We personally traveled Iceland with a''DJI Mavic''and a''Canon 80D.''You can check out more our favorite''photography equipment here''. Popular places to photograph and visit in Iceland are the''Black Sand Beach near Vik'', JökulsárlónGlacier Lagoon, and Vatnajökull\xa0 National Park.''Bring your own bed''Whether your camping in a tent, in a car, or campervan being comfortable is a priority for sleep. When we''camped in Africa''we invested in heavy duty sleeping mats and our backs thanked us every single night. Make sure to bring the right gear. We''traveled through in Iceland''in October and temperatures were already around freezing. If you’re in a campervan or tent it never hurts to invest in a good sleeping bag. If coming from the US, we suggest checking out REI for camping equipment as they only carry quality products.''Towels are a lifesaver''We always carry a''travel towel''. It doesn’t matter if we plan to hop between hotels, camp in Iceland, or head to a beach resort. They almost always come in handy. Especially if you’re camping and using the public pools of Iceland, because they will charge you around 500 ISK for a towel rental. You can check out our''favorite travel towels''here!''Learn to cook basics''Learn to cook a few easy meals. We’ve spent a lot of time camping this last year so it’s been a process of learning simple meals that be done with one burner.''Wraps:''These are super simple. Cameron made hot wraps by cooking a stir fry in a pan using vegan hoisin duck, frozen veggies, and mushrooms. Dish it out in some wraps and top with vegan cheese. (You can use the real stuff too!)''Rice'': It’s a staple and finding a way to make it your own will take you for miles. We like to top our rice with peas, corn, avocado, eggs, and a sweet Thai chili sauce. (There are hundreds of variations of this!)''Soup'': We love to make soup because it’s delicious requires one pot and it fills you up. For an easy and healthy soup, Cameron recommends the following:''Saute onions in a pot until translucent, add mushrooms, tomatoes, vegetable stock (bouillon cubes to save space), rice, potatoes, carrots, and season with paprika. If you’re a meat eater cook it first with the onions. The key to a soup is layering flavors and letting it simmer for a long time''.''Pancakes'': Who doesn’t love pancakes? They’re dead simple and when you top them with peanut butter they’ll keep you going for hours. For camping, we suggest the premade mix from the store.''Pasta'': Roasted red pepper, pesto, avocado, or mushroom stroganoff there are countless variations of pasta you can make. We love to mix them with frozen veggies when camping in Iceland. Fresh produce is expensive!''It’s no longer a secret''Chances are if you’ve heard of the destination in Iceland so has everyone else! You’ve probably seen photos of that abandoned plane sitting out in the middle of nowhere Iceland. It’s still in that same location, but it’s now surrounded by tourists and littered with trash (including tourist poop). More importantly, it’s in the middle of nowhere! The hike is well known for being in a flat desert area with no vegetation, it used to add to the mystique. Now, you’re just in a line behind the other tourists trying to get that same photo. Iceland is well explored, asides from the middle where most people can’t get. You should think about what you really want to see in the amount of time you have.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Iceland''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Get Around Iceland:''We loved our''Happy Campers''and highly recommend renting a campervan to get around the country. We loved it so much we are going to give you guys 5% off your Happy Camper. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Accommodation in\xa0Iceland:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home try Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0Iceland:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Iceland amazing to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go''reusable water bottle.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through those wireless nights.''Read Next:''A Couples Guide to Experiencing the Best of Iceland''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''13 Tips to Survive Iceland in a Camper Van • Read This Before You Go!''A 12 Day Iceland Road Trip Itinerary (Ring Road + Snaefellsnes Peninsula)''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''The Black Sand Beach in Iceland: All You Need to Know about Reynisfjara''Best Time to Visit Iceland • Don’t Let the Weather Ruin Your Trip''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Camping in Iceland? Here are 25 Iceland Ring Road Trip Tips''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Natasha''If you were to ask us what the most beautiful islands are in Europe are you wouldn’t get the answer you would expect. Well, maybe you have an idea from the title of this post, but we would definitely say the Faroes Islands! Yes, the group of 18 windswept islands between Norway and Iceland certainly win a spot on our favorite destinations list.''In many ways they remind me of why we''love the African bush'', they are raw. The cliff faces and the bleak landscape are inhospitable, but it will humble you with beauty.''I can’t think of when I had a bigger grin on my face this year than when I stood on top of a mountain in near hurricane force winds. It felt dangerous, it felt right, and I felt tiny.''We weren’t exactly planning on going to the Faroe Islands this year. Of course, they were always on our travel radar as we had seen enough photos of them on Instagram to know they looked unreal. However, we found ourselves wondering where to go after our road trip around''Scotland’s North Coast 500''that we started seriously considering the Faroes. Atlantic Airways runs non-stop flights from Edinburgh to Vágar Airport, the only airport in the Faroe Islands. So we knew it was now or never to get to the untouched paradise.''Stunning Waterfalls''There is no shortage of waterfalls on the Faroe Islands. It may come as a surprise that 18 tiny islands in the middle of the Atlantic have so much water, until you see a weather almanac. The archipelago is wet, windswept, and cold. It rains here year round and temperatures fluctuate between 3\xa0°C and 13\xa0°C.''However, with all of the rain and a foreboding ocean, they are dramatic. The vast amounts of rain cascade down the island’s cliff faces in spectacular fashion. Roads here wrap around the coastline and at times look as if they’ll be swept away as water falls from above.''We spent our days hopping around the Faroes chasing waterfalls. This means the only proper way to explore the islands is via rental car, which we highly recommend getting if you want to explore at all. There is public transport on the islands but the schedules are infrequent and limiting. Relying on buses will likely hinder a fun holiday here.''Charming Homes''The Faroe Islands are famous for their traditional grass roofs. You can see only a number of grass roofs in Iceland, but in the Faroe Islands it is the norm and many of the wood homes are downright charming.''Wonder why someone would want a golf course on their roof? A grass roof operates as a form of insulation keeping the homes warm in the winter, and cool in the summer. In the olden days, they also did a great job at protecting from the rain.''The homes are seriously beautiful and actually more expensive to maintain than a standard roof, so it’s become sign of wealth and aesthetics. And yes you can''mow a roof''…''Lots Of Weather''It’s likely you won’t find the islands on many lists for island getaways because they receive nearly 300 days of rain a year! Then to top it off winds here are unpredictable.''Wait''. It feels like I’m stating why you shouldn’t visit the Faroe Islands. That’s not the case at all!''There is nothing one of''the best packable down jackets''and the right clothes can’t fix!''All of this weather only adds to the mystique of the Faroe Islands. If it was sunny and warm you wouldn’t find snow-capped peaked, dramatic cliffs, and gorgeous waterfalls. These are islands lost in time and a cloud of fog.''Amazing Hikes''Exploring the mountains and hills of the Faroes are immensely rewarding. The islands are mostly wild so you’re free to explore as you please. Many of the trails follow old cairns and paths used before there were roads on the island. The island has nearly 340 mountains so it’s unlikely you’ll ever climb them all as a tourist! But this Faroese guy has, and he has a''website to tell you about it!''In case you didn’t know a cairn is a stack of rocks used to mark a direction. Some of the cairns and footpaths date back centuries so be sure not to knock over a piece of history.''They’re Iceland’s Odd Cousin''Just like Iceland and Greenland the Faroese are the descendants of Vikings. Despite being under Denmark the country does not have Danish roots. The Danish Kingdom actually received the islands in 1814 in a treaty with Norway, and they have been a part of Denmark ever since. In modern times they are actually a semi-autonomous region of Denmark with their own parliament and laws.''They actually have traits in common with Iceland. Faroese is even similar to a dialect of Icelandic! They are also very well connected to Iceland and are a great addition to any trip there.''A Photographers Paradise''With all of the drama that unfolds and nearly 24/7 light in the summer months, the Faroe Islands are a photographers dream! If you’re going to head to the Faroe Islands we suggest you pack of these''great travel cameras''and''laptop''to capture the trip.''Buttercup Roads''There are roads that are dedicated for the most scenic drives, they even have a cute name, “''Buttercup''.” C’mon how can you not love that a single lane road named buttercup that also has 2000 ft cliffs and no guard rails?''You Feel Different''When you travel to the Faroe Islands you are not assigned a number and required to tour the countryside in a bus. The Faroes receive a limited number of tourists each year so travelers are rewarded with a unique experience. Not only are there are a limited number of tourists, but there are only 50,000 people that live in the tiny island country!''Although we enjoyed traveling Iceland, we really felt different traveling in the Faroes. We rarely found other tourists, and never ever saw a giant bus full of foreigners like in Iceland. We were able to stop at beautiful spots and see only a few other people enjoying the views too. If you want to escape the crowds like us, the Faroe Islands are your calling.''They Have the''Best''Looking Livestock''The resident sheep population outnumbers people on the Faroe Islands, by about 30,000. yes, there are estimated to be more than''80,000 sheep''in the Faroes! The Faroes sheep are a unique breed of sheep only native to the islands after centuries of breeding. You can also find the Faroese pony, duck, and goose here.''Amazing Food''There aren’t a plethora of restaurants on the Faroe Islands. However, there are a number of places that take dining very serious including''one Michelin star''restaurant that’s worth a trip to the Faroe Islands alone. We were lucky enough to try out three of Tórshavn’s best restaurants,''Barbara Fish House'',''etika'', and''Áarstova''.''Our meals at the three restaurants were beyond amazing! We enjoyed Barbara Fish House’s signature “From our Fjords” tasting menu that featured a number of Faroese specialties. It included some monkfish that may have been the most spectacular seafood dish we’ve ever had. Tasha was able to get here sushi fill with etika and the fish was amazingly fresh. She even claimed that etika had some of the best sushi she has ever tasted – and that is saying something for a sushi connoisseur like her.\xa0 For a local fine dining experience, we made our way to Áarstova. Áarstova has a prime location in a historic building in Downtown\xa0Tórshavn and serve delicious and local cuisine in the form of three or five courses.''They Will Humble You''Humans are minuscule in the grand scheme of things. With globalization and the impact we have on the world today it’s easy to forget that. The Faroe Islands will humble you, they will bring you back down to size. It’s tough to describe the feeling when you look out from 100-meter cliff to an ocean battering its walls, other than''small''.''There is (pretty much) NO Crime!''Did you know there is no prison on the Faroe Islands? The islands\xa0are well known for their extremely low crime rates and friendly locals. Their unemployment rate also sits at around 2.2%,''making it one of the lowest in the entire world!''So if you’re\xa0on the fence about visiting the Faroes or it’s your first time abroad you can rest assured knowing there is no serious crime here. The most damage you’ll likely get into is go hiking right off a cliff!''and now, some visuals…''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to the Faroe Islands!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Faroe Islands Accommodation:''The Faroe Islands are limited with hotels with the''majority located in Tórshavn''. We stayed in Hotel Føroyar while in the capital, which is easily the most upmarket hotel in the city. If you’re looking to stay outside of the city we suggest checking out Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay on Airbnb!''Travel Insurance:''You never know what can happen abroad, and that’s why\xa0we always travel with''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Their plans are flexible and affordable.''Rain Jacket:''If you’re going to the Faroe Islands''do not forget''your''rain jacket''and a good pair of hiking boots!''Read Next:''15 Things to Know Before You Tackle Scotland’s North Coast 500''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Inside Tanzania’s Amazing Ruaha National Park''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''12 Reasons Why You Should Travel to the Faroe Islands''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Cameron''In northwest Morocco, situated in the beautiful Rif Mountains, is Chefchaouen. “''Chaouen''” as locals call it, is a small city that is renowned for its beautiful streets made up of Moroccan blue paint. Besides the blue streets, Chefchauoen is a popular tourist destination for its\xa0hashish, grown prolifically all over the region.''We went to Morocco’s blue city to\xa0get away from the hustle and bustle of the bigger cities in Morocco. We had seen the photos online detailing all the shades of blue, and just knew we had to get to this Moroccan town.''Why is Chefchaouen blue?''Often referred to as “the blue pearl” we were curious why as well, and there are a few answers to this question. History tells us that during the Spanish Inquisition thousands of Jews fled Europe so they were not forced into Christianity. They ended up settling in Chefchaouen and painted all the walls blue, the color of divinity in Judaism.''The locals told us that the blue color repels mosquitos, I guess they mistake the blue for clear blue water and stay away. Then there is the idea\xa0that the various shades of blue help\xa0to cool the city off during the summer. Whatever it this Moroccan blue city is stunning.''How do you get to Morocco’s blue city?''There are a few different options''depending on where you come from in the country.\xa0There are frequent buses from\xa0Fez\xa0and\xa0Tetouan\xa0and also from\xa0Casablanca,\xa0Rabat,\xa0Tangier, and\xa0Ceuta.\xa0\xa0Chefchauoen is located about three hours away from Tangier which is the largest city in proximity to Chefchaouen. There are two local buses daily from Tangier,''skip those'', and stick with the private bus company CTM for a\xa0more pleasurable ride.''We came from''the coastal town of Assilah and took the bus to Tetouan, and then had to hop on another local bus from there.\xa0 Another option is a grand taxi from Tangier or Tetouan.''The CTM bus station''in Tetouan is separate from the Supratours pick up and drop off point. Beware of men outside the bus stations in Tangier and Tetouan offering to randomly help you. They will take you to the local bus stations and charge double the price of a regular ticket for their “services”.''Grand taxis are cheap'', but not as cheap as a bus and you will most likely be crammed in with other passengers. They fit as many people as they can in grand taxis – safety is not a priority!''If you feel confident driving''in Morocco you can rent a car to get around. We met a few people doing this and it seemed to be a good option for groups of people.''The last option I would recommend is a''tour to Chefchauoen, which will take the headache out of doing it yourself. There are many that run.''Here are a few of them.''What is there to do in the Moroccan blue city?''Besides chasing all the stray cats through the blue town in Morocco, there is plenty to do in this little town. We personally spent five days in Chefchaouen as it was the most peaceful town we found in all of Morocco, and really enjoyed it. It was relaxing to just spend our days getting lost in the blue maze next to the mountains and not feel rushed. If you decide to make the trek to Chefchaouen I would recommend at least two days to get around the town and do some hiking. Each street always brought us something new and undiscovered.''Hike:''When you get tired of wandering around the Moroccan blue city then just look up! Chefchauoen is situated high in the Rif Mountains and is an excellent base for hiking. We chose to climb on past the Spanish mosque on the outskirts of town, and up into the mountain villages.''See God’s Bridge:''The Bridge of God is a lovely natural arc, 25m above the river Oued Farda. To get to the bridge it is advisable to take a taxi a half-hour out of the city to start the hike to God’s Bridge.''See\xa0Ras el Maa:''This waterfall is on the east end of the medina and is where the locals gather to socialize. If you are wanting to venture out of the medina for some peace I would recommend checking out this waterfall.''Go Shopping:''Chaouen, Morocco is known for having high-quality handmade leather goods. The old medina is not big, and just exploring the streets should bring you across many artisans showing off their work. Exploring the media, having a cafe, and chatting with the locals is a wonderful way to pass time. Don’t forget to bring a''travel camera,''it’s one of the most photogenic spots in North Africa.''Smoke:''You won’t have an issue finding hash in Chefchauoen. Touts everywhere in the city will be offering you their specialty like you’re a kid in a toy store. Their persistence can get annoying, a firm no should get them to stop bothering you.''Where to eat in Chefchauoen''Some of the best Moroccan food we ate was in this blue town in Morocco. There are so many traditional and local places it is hard to choose where to eat. However, a few of our favorites are:''Bab Ssour:''In our opinion, this is the best place to eat in Chefchauoen. Bab Ssour serves up traditional Moroccan cuisine with fresh ingredients. Their specials change daily and I would recommend going with whatever they recommend!''Pizzeria Mandala:''I know pizza isn’t what you go to Morocco for, but after a few weeks traveling around the country pizza was just what we needed. Ths is the best and cheapest in the area.''Café Restaurant Sofia:''Traditional and rich Moroccan food at a good price. Can’t complain about that! You’ll find specialties like tajine,\xa0harira,\xa0kofte,\xa0and\xa0tagras\xa0here.''There are also plenty of juice places around the town where you can get freshly squeezed juices for less than 10 Dirham ($1) and quick sandwiches for 15 dirhams.''Where to stay in the blue city of Morocco''Riad Baraka:''This charming riad has both dorm beds and private rooms and is where we stayed for five nights. There is a great common room to help you meet fellow travelers, and the WiFi is some of the best we had in Morocco!''Casa Perleta:''This is one of our favorite Chefchaouen Morocco hotels. With positive vibes and beautiful panoramic views of the Moroccan blue city. Breakfast on the rooftop is included in the roommate. It’s a bit more private than a Riad Baraka and more comfortable, but costs double the price.''What to wear in Chefchauoen''Morocco is a predominately Muslim country so it’s important to dress conservatively. Although Chefchauoen is a bit more liberal than the rest of the country it’s still important to cover up exposed skin. It’s important to respect the culture of the country you are in at all times. I would recommend to bring loose and light clothing as it will get hot in the summertime. You’re in the mountains and believe it or not it can get cold at night so pack a''packable down jacket.''If you are hiking you will want to''bring tennis shoes,''and comfortable clothing to hike in.''Here is our full packing list suggestions for Morocco.''Helpful Info:''Languages in Chefchauoen'': English, Spanish, Arabic, and French''Cash:''Almost everywhere takes only cash so don’t plan on racking up credit card points in Morocco. There are a few ATM’s located around the city.''Check out more of our travel banking tips here.''WiFi:''All places we stayed in Morocco had free WiFi. Whether it was good or not remained questionable. Data is cheap in Morocco and I recommend picking up a SIM card when you land.''Stay Safe:''If anyone is overly friendly or invading your personal space politely back away and try to exit the situation. There are many locals, usually men, offering to “help” only to harass money out of you and make you feel uncomfortable in the end.''Haggling:''Shop owners expect you to barter with them when purchasing goods. The food, however, is cheap and you should not barter for that.''Besides the “bluetiful” buildings, we found Chefchauoen to be the most peaceful place we visited in Morocco. Locals and tourist alike are relaxed (perhaps it’s the hash), and I found there to be significantly less hassle than in Marrakech for females. Besides the persistent marijuana\xa0offerings (these were really only directed at Cameron,) I found Chefchauoen to be completely blissful.''At some points, I even forgot I was in Morocco; and instead felt I was in a blue fairytale. \xa0When we booked our flights to Morocco, I knew that we had to get to Chefchauoen, and after visiting I could not stress going to this place enough. Seriously, put it on your travel itinerary and get lost in the Moroccan blue paint.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Morocco''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Morocco:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home''in Morocco we use Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Morocco:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We didn’t drink the water from the taps in Morocco. Instead, we filtered everything with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''I know the internet is great, but sometimes it just doesn’t feel as great as a real book. We like to travel with''Lonely Planet''for those wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Don’t forget that Morocco uses the Europlug. Make sure to pack a good adaptor''like the one I have.''Have you been to Morocco’s blue city?''You May Also Like''What is a Riad? Here are the Six Most Beautiful Riads in Morocco''Things to Do in Essaouira: A Beach Holiday in Morocco''15 Things I Wish I Knew Before Going to Morocco''What is a Riad? Here are the Six Most Beautiful Riads in Morocco''Dining At Le Saveur De Poisson in Tangier''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''All About Morocco’s Blue City, Chefchaouen • The Ultimate Guide''October 27, 2017''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''May 2, 2017''All About Morocco’s Blue City, Chefchaouen • The Ultimate Guide''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Natasha''Talking about Iceland supermarkets and where to buy groceries in Iceland is not the most exciting subject. However, before our trip to Iceland, we found ourselves doing some research about the prices in the supermarkets in Iceland. We found that we weren’t the only ones wondering and that a lot of people actually ask about the prices of Iceland grocery stores.''It’s an important part of budgeting and given the popularity of camper vans, Airbnb, and camping many people find themselves cooking their own meals to avoid the crazy high costs of food in Iceland. This tourist guide should help save and budget accordingly for shopping in Iceland grocery stores.''A Guide to Icelandic Supermarkets''Iceland’s Supermarket Chains''There are several different chain markets you can expect to find in Iceland. Here’s a brief overview of the different grocery stores and which are our favorites.''Bónus''This is the most prominent grocery store in Iceland. They have a number of locations throughout Iceland and you can find a number of them along the ring road. The vast majority of their stores and Iceland markets are in Reykjavik.''Bónus''is the budget supermarket in Iceland. The shops are the Icelandic equivalent of a Lidl or Aldi. They offer a limited number of products and shy away from name brands.''Despite having a more limited selection they still have more than enough for anyone’s basic needs. Unless you’re a gourmand Bónus will be more than enough for you. This is our pick for the''best grocery store in Iceland''and is what we always sought out to find.''If you’re having a tough time finding a Bonus just remember their logo is the cartoon pig with a black eye. Don’t ask us why the pig has a black eye. Maybe he got into a fight with another pig.''Krónan''Krónan''is the closest competitor to Bónus. They carry a larger selection of products, more produce, and a number of health food options. Their prices are a close second to Bónus, but we did find Krónan to be slightly higher priced. They do offer a large fresh meat and fish section, but since we eat vegetarian we can’t comment on the prices. This Iceland grocery store does carry specialty food products like organic health food and gluten-free bread.''Their logo is a smiling yellow colored orange. If that’s too confusing it’s like someone painted a yellow smiley on an orange.''Nettó''Nettó''is another cheap shop based in Akureyri and we saw a few other stores throughout Iceland. They sell a wide selection of products including things like clothes and children’s games. If you need a random household item we’d recommend taking a look inside.''For some reason, their logo is a hollow orange apple. If there is a talented graphic artist in need of work, I believe Iceland has some openings!''Víðir''Víðir''is probably the nicest food market in Iceland. The new chain has a number of locations around Reykjavík. They have a nice selection of fresh fruit and vegetables. They also carry a wide range of healthy food and quality products. It is more expensive than the budget supermarkets but carries the''best quality of food products in Iceland''.''10-11''The first time we walked in one of the stores we were just seeking some Nescafe. That was until we saw the price at a staggering $13… Even our favorite addiction of Haribo were $6 a bag. The prices here are obscene and it’s unlikely any locals use the shops if they can avoid it. Our advice is to steer clear of them as they are at least double the standard Icelandic price.\xa0 Although, we did notice the tour buses conveniently made them their stop…''Costco''I can not comment on this one. However, it was a pretty big deal when Costco opened a store in Iceland. Even a few locals we talked to were excited about the prospect of the megastore. If you’re already a member we’d suggest giving the store a stop as their''memberships are good worldwide''.''Where To Buy Food In Iceland''We’ve seen a couple bloggers state that there are no grocery stores outside of Reykjavik, that is not true. You shouldn’t expect to find a grocery store in every little town, but the locals do have to eat and most major towns contain some form of a supermarket.''We were able to drive the entirety of the Ring Road and only shopped at Bónus every couple of days. We found an Iceland grocery store in the following towns Stykkishólmur, Akureyri,\xa0Egilsstadir, and Reykjavik.''Food Prices in Iceland Supermarkets''The food prices in Iceland vary when it comes to products in the markets. We found many food products reasonable and then we’d find produce items like an aubergine (eggplant) for $6. That’s like the cheapest vegetable next to potatoes! Iceland is one of the most expensive countries to live in the world and even the food prices reflect that.''You can still get by on a budget, but it will be limited. We found products like milk, bread, rice, frozen vegetables, and apples to not be ridiculous. As a budget saving strategy, we made peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for lunch. (''What American doesn’t love that?'') For snacks, we ate apples and peanuts, always solid options that are healthy and keep you full.''Average Food Costs''Product''Price''Product''Price''Rice (kg)''$3.50''Apples (kg)''$3.25''Bread''$4.00''Tomato (kg)''$2.75''Eggs (12)''$6.00''Bananas\xa0(kg)''$2.50''Cheese (kg)''$16.00''Onion (kg)''$1.50''Chicken (kg)''$20.00''Lettuce (kg)''$3.00''Milk''$1.50''Potato (kg)''$2.75''*For those who do not know, 1 kg = 2.2 lbs''What to Budget For Food in Iceland''We ate modestly and completely vegetarian while we were cooking our own meals in Iceland. However, in''10 days of camping, we spent $225 on food''. That’s just over''$11 a day in food per person''. It would be easy to spend more on food and I suppose we could have spent a tad bit less. We never went hungry and had plenty of snacks throughout the day.\xa0 If you’re trying to work out a budget it would be''safe to budget $15 a day,''as it’s always better to come in under budget than over!''Tips for Grocery Shopping in Iceland''Pick and Choose Vegetables''Some vegetables\xa0are affordable while others are just ridiculous. Fresh produce, in general, is high. That being said the basic staples are within anyone’s budget. Things like tomatoes, apples, and potatoes were cheap. Our saving grace for greens came in the form of frozen vegetables. They aren’t great and we usually avoid them when cooking at home; however, Iceland doesn’t grow almost any of their own produce so the best prices come in the form of frozen foods.''Forget Ready Made Food''When we’re on the road we love to pick up ready-made food at grocery stores. It’s usually a cheap and healthy way to eat lunch. However, in Iceland we found the ready-made options to be expensive or downright bad. Expect a white bread sandwich with a hefty serving of mayo to cost between $8-$9.''Bring The Right Stuff From Home''This is really geared for campers and those doing the Ring Road. However, if you bring the right products from home it can save you a buck and make your trip much more enjoyable.''French Press''/ Coffee Brewer: Cutting back on needless costs like coffee is an easy way to save a budget especially in a place like Iceland. I’d also suggest picking up a bag of your favorite brew as it will be cheaper than in Iceland. (''*Full disclosure: We are coffee addicts'')''Leave the freeze-dried food at home. Unless you plan on doing a multi-day hike the quick cooking food is totally unnecessary. I’ve seen a few people recommend bringing the stuff, don’t do it.''If you plan to camp or use a campervan make sure to bring a\xa0multi functional camping set. Although our van came with some cooking equipment it is a little limited by itself. It doesn’t hurt to pick up something like this''this set is an awesome choice.''If you can we recommend carrying a jet boil for both campers and those in a campervan. While our van came with one burner having an additional burner can make life much easier. Like cooking breakfast and coffee in the morning!''Avoid Gas Stations''Be warned gas stations are expensive in Iceland! That extends beyond the''whopping gas prices ($8/gallon)''! We’ve seen a hot dog or cheeseburger meal in a gas station go for $15 a meal. The limited food products that they do carry are generally double the standard price in Iceland.''Avoid!''Don’t Miss Regional Specialties''When you travel you don’t have to eat out to enjoy local food. One of our favorite things to do is pick specialty products in countries then cook it on our own. Our two favorite products we found in Iceland were skyr and smoked charr. Smoked charr is similar to salmon, but way better and it’s worth the high cost trust us!''Now that you have your groceries sorted, check out what there is to do in Iceland!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Iceland''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Get around Iceland:''We loved our''Happy Campers''and highly recommend renting a campervan to get around the country. We loved it so much we are going to give you guys 5% off your Happy Camper. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''“''Accommodation in\xa0Iceland:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home try Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0Iceland:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Iceland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through those wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Remember that Iceland uses both''Europlug''Read Next:''What to Pack for Iceland All Year Round''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''20 Iceland Travel Tips • Things to Know Before You Go''How To Drive The Golden Circle in Iceland Yourself''Happy Campers Review: The Best Camper Van Company in Iceland? (+Coupon!)''The Black Sand Beach in Iceland: All You Need to Know about Reynisfjara''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''Best Time to Visit Iceland • Don’t Let the Weather Ruin Your Trip''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''A First Timer’s Guide To Iceland Grocery Stores & Supermarkets''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''Scotland’s capital city, Edinburgh is no doubt a popular tourist destination. However, with all of those tourist means it may be difficult to figure out where to stay in Edinburgh. The city\xa0is packed with history, parks, cafes, shops, and restaurants. We found ourselves constantly wandering around the city finding new amazing places. Our days were packed full with the things to do in the city. So, when it the end of the day came we needed a great hotel to lay our head at night.''We spent over a week in the historic city and set about seeking some of Edinburgh’s best hotels and''restaurants''.\xa0 If you plan on making it to Scotland’s capital city then we suggest booking in advance as the good places can stay booked up year round in a city like this.There is no shortage of accommodation in a city that has been serving tourist for decades. However, there are definitely not so great places and amazing places to stay in Edinburgh. Here are some of our favorites!''Where to Stay in Edinburgh''Old Town Chambers''If you’re the type who likes to feel at home when traveling than look no further. Old Town Chambers is a collection of luxury apartments in the heart of Edinburgh’s Old Town. The apartments are modern, spacious, comfortable, and definitely luxurious. The interior of the apartments seamlessly blend the historic and the new. The exposed brick, steel beams, dimmer controlled lighting and modern furniture all work.''Each unit comes with a fully stocked kitchen, including a Nespresso machine for those feeling in a George Clooney mood. Our apartment had a large kitchen table that left enough room for friends to enjoy drinks and dinner.\xa0The two bedroom unit featured a loft with views out over the North Bridge. And when it comes time to sleep you won’t be disappointed as the beds are comfortable with nice linens.''Bathrooms are modern, clean, and stocked with Cowshed bath products, that are locally produced. We had multiple TVs if you’re looking to catch up on the news or watch a movie after a long day exploring the city.''We loved the modern feature of an automated keypad for entrance to our building and apartment meaning we never had to worry about our losing our keys or keycard. Not that it would have been a problem as they have staff on duty 24/7. We’re big on staying fit so a well-equipped gym with power racks is great.''If you’re looking for a home away from home with all of the services of a hotel then look no further! This is a great option if you’re still wondering where to stay in Edinburgh and want to be completely central to all the main sights of the city!''Check Rates Here!''Radisson Blu Edinburgh''We loved the Radisson Blu in Edinburgh. It has one of the best locations in the city at the crossroads between the Royal Mile and South Bridge. The modern hotel may be recently constructed, but it’s made to blend in well with the surrounding buildings. That doesn’t mean it misses out on the past as the hotel sits atop many of cities most notorious catacombs with centuries of history below.''We were lucky enough to be upgraded to one of their corner suites. The suite is massive and serves those looking to host a few friends or conduct a business meeting well. While the living room of our hotel was massive we had a detached bedroom with a king size bed. The bed was wonderfully comfortable and came with a pillow menu and a relaxing lavender bed mist. Our night’s sleep here was perfect as the room features blackout curtains and soundproof windows.''We loved our stay here as they had a great gym that included everything you could need like machines, yoga mats, bikes, free weights, rollers, and even a heavy bag with boxing gloves.''The hotel made for a great stay with its location and high level of service. It served up everything we love about Radisson Blu hotels and did not disappoint.''Check Rates Here!''Principal On George Street''This is actually Edinburgh’s oldest hotel; however, you’d never know it given the hotel’s recent facelift. However, don’t think that means the hotel has lost any of its charm. When we walked into the front door we were greeted by male staff members in kilts and a Georgian era interior. The lobby features marble floors, columns, and has heavy oak and leather furniture.''Our junior suite in the hotel was spacious, plush, and cozy. There is a clear attention to detail here and the interior design of the hotel was by far the most stylish in Edinburgh. It served up everything you could want from a luxurious Scottish hotel room. Who can hate on tartan throw pillows?''The Burr & Co. coffee shop inside the hotel serves wonderful coffee to be taken seriously and its bar/restaurant are''one of favorites in Scotland''.\xa0The location is wonderful for those looking to shop and eat while in Edinburgh as it located on the famous George Street. The hotel also received the award for Scottish Hotel of Year award at the 2017 Scottish Hotel Awards, so you know it’s one of the best in the city!''Check Rates Here!''Sheraton Grand Hotel & Spa Edinburgh''The Sheraton is located directly across from''Usher Hall''. The hotel’s exterior may feel a little drab compared to the rest of Edinburgh, but once we stepped inside we were impressed. The large hotel’s lobby, bar, and restaurant are stunning.\xa0Staff at the hotel go above and beyond delivering a high quality of service that is tough to beat.''Rooms in the hotel are on the small side, but wonderfully comfortable with a luxurious bathroom and bedroom. The desk situated by the window provided views on Edinburgh Castle and makes''answering morning emails on our travel laptop''difficult. Our bed itself was''The best feature of the whole experience has to be the spa. The One Spa attached to the hotel just may be one of the most indulgent things to do Edinburgh. It features a rooftop indoor infinity lap pool and sauna for those who like to swim for a workout. Then there is the rooftop outdoor hyrdopool and a full thermal suite with 13 steps of hot and cold treatments. After completing the''North Coast 500'', we were feeling a little weighed down and the spa rejuvenated us thoroughly. The spa also features a large gym with trainers on site.''Check Rates Here!''Rent a Castle View Apartment!''We actually love using Airbnb when we travel. We usually opt for own apartment so that we can have privacy and cook our own meals which you really can’t do in a hotel, hence the reason we loved Old Town Chambers so much. I really''loved this personal apartment''but unfortunately, it was booked when we were visiting. It has castle views, a full kitchen, and 177 perfect reviews – it’s hard to get much better than that! As a''wee gift to you here is $30 off your first Airbnb booking!''Wherever you stay I’m sure you will have a fantastic time in Edinburgh. There is so much to do and see and the whole city has this eclectic vibe that is hard to come by in Europe! Here is a little preview of Edinburgh.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''The Best Scottish Food Restaurants: Our Culinary Journey''15 Things to Know Before You Tackle Scotland’s North Coast 500''Travel Banking Breakdown: How to Save and Protect Your Money''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''Where To Stay In Edinburgh: Our Favorites!''was last modified:''November 1st, 2017''by''Cameron''What would be the point of traveling if we didn’t enjoy the local food? Scottish food can come in any manner. The dramatic countryside provides a wide range of beautiful farm products and with a fertile sea, Scotland may be a culinary destination.''Scottish food at its core is all about the ingredient, nothing in the highlands is mass produced. The attention to detail is apparent in the end product. We enjoyed beautiful hand-dived scallops, smoked salmon, aged whisky, stilton, croquettes, cheddar, dry aged beef, duck, wild mushrooms, venison, grouse, lamb, aubergines, hand-picked herbs, and craft distilled gin. Natasha and I are big-time fans of smoked salmon and having beautiful salmon every morning with our eggs will never get old. In full disclosure, we are''pescatarian''95% of the time, but when a beautiful farm to table locally and humanely sourced product comes along we do occasionally indulge.''Despite preconceived notions of food on the British Isle, Scotland will blow you away with its culinary offerings. That is of course if the weather doesn’t blow you away first! Here is the best of what we ate in Scotland and what you should consider eating in Scotland too!''The Best Scottish Food Restaurants''The Three Chimneys – Isle of Skye''The Three Chimneys is one of the finest restaurants in Scotland. It first opened its doors in 1985 and has long been an institution on the Isle of Skye. It’s a worthy food destination and set on a stunning island inside an old crofters cottage. We were lucky enough to enjoy their massive tasting menu “Skye, Land, & Sea” that relies on local ingredients from the island and Scotland. Items like fresh oysters, langoustine, lamb, and grouse are sure to leave you satisfied.''Many 0f the seafood ingredients came from the loch across the street that provides fresh high-quality seafood. However, it was the playful elements throughout the dishes that we found extraordinary, like a seafood''dashi''paired with beautiful scallops. The tasting menu is for the more adventurous with items like raw oysters and''sweetbreads''being plated, just be sure to let your waiter know if you’d like something else in advance.''You don’t need to take our word for the restaurant as they were just named the 2018 Good Food Guide Editor’s Choice UK Restaurant of the Year.''Crannag Bistro – Bonar Bridge''This is simply good cooking. No need for a massive tasting, they keep it simple with a few solid choices on the menu every night. The restaurant is run by a Scottish couple who love great food. They aim to use great Scottish ingredients like fresh fish, beef, cheese, and pork.''It’s the perfect spot for dinner when driving the North Coast 500. I had an amazing salmon pastrami as a starter and Tasha went with a cheese soufflé as her main that was amazing. To top it all off we had a massive piece of meringue pie and cheesecake. Yum!''Stravaigin – Glasgow''The restaurant is tucked away in the basement of a pub/cafe in the West End neighborhood of Glasgow. They aim to serve up some of the finest Scottish food in the city in a casual setting. Any great restaurant these days is sure to use local produce and at Stravaigin they not only excel at using beautiful Scottish products they produce some of them in their own garden. We sampled black crab donuts, salmon & quail eggs for starters and both were excellent. You eat a lot of Salmon in Scotland, as one should, and the pairing with quail eggs is one of our favorites. When it came to our entrees we went with a beautiful ratatouille and baked cod.''They’ve\xa0 also won a Michelin Guide Bib Gourmand recommendation for five years straight!''North Kessock – Black Isle''This pub/hotel serves up some delicious food while offering views over Beauly Firth to Inverness. The interior of the pub is modern and relaxed which makes for the perfect environment for those needing a rest after exploring the wilds of the highlands.''We had some beautiful heritage tomatoes with buffalo mozzarella and a monkfish tagliatelle dish. It was the perfect escape from Inverness that can feel a bit overwhelming geared towards tourism at times.''Sutor Creek Cafe – Cromarty''This little cafe in Cromarty on the Black Isle is the perfect lunch spot, especially for those on exploring to the Northwest of Inverness. The cafe is famed for its tasty wood-fired pizzas and fresh local seafood. Guest regularly indulge in steaming plates of gorgeous mussels paired with wine. It’s unassuming and it fits perfectly into the small coastal town of Cromarty.''We got lucky and hit Cromarty on a\xa0sunny day. The town is the most quaint town we explored in Scotland, but still, it has lots to\xa0offer visitors. The romantic town is set on the Northern tip of the Black Isle with plenty of marine life at its doorstep. The old stone homes have managed to withstand centuries of hard sea winds and will likely withstand centuries more. The restaurant’s exceptional food and the town make it well worth the drive to the North of the island.''You don’t need to take our word for the restaurant as it is recommended by the Michelin Food Guide.''Dine – Edinburgh''The newly opened Dine Edinburgh is attached to the Traverse Theatre and across the street from the Royal Lyceum. Making it the perfect spot for those looking to enjoy the arts in Edinburgh and have a nearby dinner before or after. Their swanky hotel bar with seasonal cocktails is sure to entice any theatergoer. We settled into the wood and leather heavy bar with two craft cocktails a variation of a gin martini and a whisky cocktail blending lemon, salt, honey, and an aromatic of charred rosemary.''After our cocktails, we headed for the main dining room. It was large and airy with the focal point of the circular room a young tree which our table sat underneath. We had a three-course menu that is well priced around\xa0£22. I had some wonderfully fresh heritage tomatoes with creme fraiche and Tasha enjoyed local sea bass.''Kincraig Castle Hotel – Invergordon''The beautiful setting of this hotel was once the home of the famed Mackenzie clan. The hotel is situated far away from a city and serves as the perfect place to relax and enjoy a fine dining meal. The hotel has been well maintained and features a wonderfully cozy main lounge and Highland Bar. We had wonderful scallops, sumptuous risotto, and perfectly cooked halibut on their five-course tasting menu that left us stuffed. After indulging in the beautiful Scottish food we sat down for a wee dram of whisky by the fire at the owner’s instance, while we sampled the local whisky''Dalmore''.''You don’t need to take our word for the restaurant as it is an''AA Rosette restaurant''.''Le Escargot Blanc – Edinburgh''Okay, this isn’t Scottish food! However, if you’re looking for fabulous French food in Edinburgh then L’Escargot Blanc is the way to go. This restaurant is intimate and picks up a lively atmosphere on the weekend. We enjoyed a fabulous meal of steamed mussels, fresh sea bass with caviar, roasted duck leg, and finished creme Brule. The owner is a French man with a passion for his cuisine. He moved to Edinburgh to bring his favorites to the Scottish people. All the ingredients here either come from France or are locally produced in the restaurant’s gardens just outside of the city.''Kyloe – Edinburgh''We came here for Kyloe’s signature afternoon tea experience on a rainy afternoon in Edinburgh. It’s an experience to try for those visiting the United Kingdom. It’s a great way to while away and afternoon. Just relax drink a nice blend of tea and watch the busy streets of the Edinburgh.''Kyloe’s afternoon tea offers different fares than you’ll find at other restaurants, such as gin cured salmon sandwiches, pickle toasties, and gin and grapefruit drizzle cake! (Good thing we like gin!).''21212 – Edinburgh''21212 may just be one of the fanciest restaurants in Edinburgh. It has won numerous awards including the Best New restaurant in the UK, four AA rosettes, and even a Michelin star. It was our first time dining at a Michelin star restaurant and we didn’t know what to expect as we were seated for lunch here. Service, as expected, is top notch in such a highly esteemed eatery.''Bright open windows, complete visibility of the kitchen, white linen tablecloths, and exquisite food awaited us. Neither of us was disappointed with our grand four-course lunch here complete with''Pink Trout,''Cheesy Risotto,\xa0Chocolate & Soft Fruit Trifle.''You don’t need to take our word for the restaurant as it is one Scotland’s Michelin starred restaurants.''The Printing Press – Edinburgh''We dined here when we were staying next door at the Principal Hotel. It was a Friday and we didn’t want to walk far and we are so happy that we made that decision for it turned out to be one of our best meals in Scotland. The Printing Press prides itself on using in-season Scottish produce which is tasted in the fantastic flavors.''The setting to enjoy this fabulous meal at is a modern building with a Gregorian era twist as all the servers, menus, and decor is intimately decorated. We ordered\xa0Poached sea trout with Shetland mussels, but the highlight of the meal was definitely the fresh scallops! We stopped by their bar afterward to enjoy a nightcap before walking a few feet back to our bedroom reflecting on the intimate night.''Cucina – Edinburgh''“Cucina” means “Kitchen” in Italian, which was very fitting with this Italian inspired restaurant right off the Royal\xa0Mile. Connected to the G & V Hotel, we knew we had to give it a try as we walked past it almost every day in Edinburgh.''The modern restaurant has an innovative menu and uses fresh ingredients in their dishes. Each plate that was brought out to us was tastefully decorated and rich in flavor. On one note we were a little disappointed with their duck breast. Regardless, it is a great place to come for a special night out on Edinburgh famous Royale Mile.''Element – Edinburgh''Element is a great place if you are looking for a brunch atmosphere. They have an indoor and outdoor seating area, and inside there is a nice bar scene, as well as a sit-in room more suited for quieter atmospheres and afternoon tea.''We stopped here while we were exploring Rose Street for our daily cappuccino grind. We ended up staying a bit longer for brunch as the vibe of Element was so great. Go on Sunday for their brunch specials!''Contini George Street – Edinburgh''Set in a Georgian building on the trendy George Street this restaurant serves up the finest Italian in Edinburgh. After going through a reinvention at the start of 2017 it has a new look and menu. The contemporary restaurant feels right at home in the former banking hall modeled after a palazzo. They use a lovely mix of Scottish ingredients such as scallops and fine imported Italian products like burrata and truffles. Their homemade pasta, in particular, their ravioli are beautiful and serve the owners Italian ancestry well.''The atmosphere seems to buzz as the waiters serve up small plates of modern Italian food. This isn’t your old-school Italian joint serving up pizza, gelato, and sauces covered in marinara, instead, patrons can enjoy dishes like herb roasted aubergine topped with a poached egg or baked lemon sole. Of course, at our meals end, we couldn’t resist the Italian classic of tiramisu.''Ackergill Tower – Wick''Ackergill Tower is a windswept castle along the Sinclair bay. It’s another wonderful stop for those on the North Coast 500.\xa0 It’s hard to beat fine dining in the Scottish Highlands in a freaking castle.\xa0 The service we had at Ackergill was top notch. Combine that with a bottle of wine, delicious Scottish cuisine, award-winning service and spectacular Scottish cuisine. It has a beautiful setting made for a king. In our opinion, an evening at Ackergill Tower should be on the top of everyone’s dining list when on the North Coast 500. They also are a hotel with reasonable rates, so if you want to stay the night in a castle this place is for you.''Products To Look For On Scottish Menus''It’s likely you won’t try all of what Scotland has to offer. These are some regional specialties and ingredients we recommend you try while on exploring Scottish food.''Smoked Salmon''Scallops''Crab''Cheddar Cheese''Grouse''Tubers – Carrots, Turnips, and Parsnips''Duck''Stilton''Haddock''Sea Bream''Honey''Lamb''Strawberries''Plan Trip to Scotland!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''North Coast 500 Accommodation:''Scotland is loaded with cute Airbnb’s and guesthouses,''here is exactly where we stayed on the NC500''. Make sure that you book in advance as demand is high and supply is low.''Here is a coupon for your first stay on Airbnb!''Travel Insurance:''You never know what can happen abroad, and that’s why\xa0we always travel with''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Their plans are flexible and affordable.''Internet:''If you want to stay connected while on the North Coast 500 I would recommend picking up a Sim card and purchasing data in Inverness, Glasgow, or Edinburgh before your trip. We personally purchased 12 GB of data for\xa0£20 with''Three.''Their coverage extended into patches of the highlands and allowed us to at the very least check our emails, Instagram, and Facebook each day. Other comparable telecom companies in the UK include O2 and Vodafone.''Water:''We found the tap water in Scotland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''Adapter:''Remember that Scotland uses the''three-prong British plug''. Make sure you have one for visiting!''Recommended Guidebook:''Lonely Planet’s Scottish Highlands.''Read Next:''15 Things to Know Before You Tackle Scotland’s North Coast 500''What to Pack for Your Trip to Scotland''Tipping in Europe: Tips on Restaurant Etiquette''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''The Best Scottish Food Restaurants: Our Culinary Journey''was last modified:''October 23rd, 2017''by''Natasha''We travel full time and work on the road. This means that staying connected to the internet is important in our lives. Everyday we answer emails, manage our website, update social media, plan our travel, and upload photos/video. It’s a lot of work! We may be location independent, but we are''internet dependent.''With a TEP wireless device, or a “Teppy,” we were able to stay connected anywhere with a mobile signal!''We have spent more hours, days, and weeks than we care to admit struggling with''crappy WiFi''. We find difficulty in staying connected as we’re frequently changing countries, sim cards, and hotels – but that’s the story of any long-term traveler! Of course, it’s always possible to find internet in some way or another, but for it to be a''reliable internet connection''is another story.''Do We Need The Internet?''Our day to day routine has now become filled with simple internet tasks that anyone can relate to such as booking rental cars, flights, hotels, driving directions, and even''mobile banking while traveling''.''For us it’s especially true since our full time job as travel bloggers require us to stay connected at most times. Daily social media updates, website maintenance, emails, and post research means our daily internet connection abroad is important.''While hotels and Airbnb’s often offer free WiFi it can truly be hit or miss. We also enjoy being connected throughout the day and utilize the internet to look up directions, like on our recent road trips around the Ring Road in Iceland and the''North Coast 500 in Scotland''.''We often pick up local SIM cards, but with new destinations and a short amount of\xa0time it’s often impractical to spend long periods in and out of telecom stores. Many countries require a lengthy registration at a specialty store with your travel documents and no one wants to spend their holiday in a mobile company shop.''We were recently introduced to our new buddy called Teppy, or our TEP wireless device. We effectively used it for internet while roadtripping around Iceland and can definitely recommend it for staying connected abroad and avoiding roaming charges from your cell phone carrier.''Our gift to you…''Enter our code “''TEPON''”''at check out for 15% off your Tep order!''Tep Wireless Hotspot Device''Hotspots are nothing new in this day and age. They act as mobile routers generating a WiFi network using mobile reception and operating off\xa0of a battery. Meaning you can surf the internet on your computer from the top of a volcano in Iceland.''It’s a great tool for travelers who want to stay connected with their smart phones,''travel laptops'', or tablets. As long as you are in a location with cell service the Teppy will connect to the local provider and provide you a reliable internet connection for five devices.''How Our Tep Device Works''The set up for our Tep device could not have been more simple. We ordered our Tep device off their website and had it delivered to our hotel in Iceland a few days in advanced. Upon our arrival our device was ready to go. They included a carrying case, charger, and the device came charged.''It’s literally plug and play from there as there is no set up with a WiFi network and the password is displayed on the home screen interface. There is just one button to power the whole device making for an effortless user experience when combined with the fact it can be sent to your hotel in advance before you arrive (just let the hotel know there is a package coming).''Teppy Internet Speeds''The Tep device runs off of the mobile network so a large part of your connection is limited to your cell phone reception. In many parts of the world this will not be an issue. We were pleasantly surprised when we tested out the Tep in Iceland. The device had signal at almost all times and we were able to stream Netflix and surf the web easily.''You can refer to the average speeds based on their tests below:''4G''Theoretic data speeds: 100 Mbps when moving, e.g. in a car, 1 Gbps when standing still.''Real-world data speeds: 18.6 Mbps and upload speeds of 9.0 Mbps''3G''Theoretic data speeds: 7.2 Mbps or 52 Mbps on 3G HSPA+''Real-world data speeds: 4.3 Mbps download and 1.1 Mbps upload”''Battery Life''The battery life on Teppy is rated for six hours. We never ran out of power with a normal’s day usage, but we also charged it every night. If you plan on heavy usage they offer an additional battery pack. Or you can pick up''your own power bank''in advance as they make for a''great travel accessory.''What Countries is Tep Service Available?''The Tep device works just about everywhere, except in most of Africa (''South Africa, Kenya, Morocco, and Egypt works''). It is the reason why it took us so long to finally test one out after a year of''Overlanding Africa''. If you want to learn more about where the device works and doesn’t''check out their site here''. We just used ours while doing a campervan trip around Iceland, which came in handy every night when we wanted to answer emails (and watch Netflix).''It’s not for everyone''We reached out to Tep Wireless about reviewing one of their devices a long time ago. It felt relevant to us as we often receive emails and messages from readers about how to stay connected abroad.''For backpackers and long-term travelers, we still recommend SIM cards because getting a sim card in a new country usually requires a bit more time and effort. However, I believe that for many travelers planning shorter trips a Tep device is perfect! The only drawback\xa0is price.''The average daily cost is $8 a day''which\xa0is reasonable for business travelers or those with a larger travel budget, but not for long term or budget travelers.''You have the option to rent or purchase your Tep Wireless device. When you purchase the device it comes with three days of WiFi included and the ability to add on days from there is easy peasy.''Want to save some money on your Tep?''Enter the code''TEPON''at check out for 15% off your Tep order''Read Next:''Travel Banking Breakdown: How to Save and Protect Your Money''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''11 Waterfalls in Iceland You Have to See to Believe''April 16, 2018''Tep Wireless Hotspot Review: How to Easily Stay Connected Abroad''was last modified:''October 19th, 2017''by''Cameron''Over time we have grown to love a good road trip. It was bound to happen as we grew older. We bought a''Land Cruiser in Cape Town'', drove across Africa, and''learned a ton along the way''! I’ve solo road tripped from Auckland to Queenstown and spent a fabulous September camping along the East Coast of Australia. In short, It’s safe to say I’ve spent some time in a car jamming out to''epic travel songs.''But it was time for something different''.''The North Coast 500 was just that, epic.''The North Coast 500 in the Scottish Highlands, has been dubbed “Scotland’s Route 66,” and named “one of the greatest road trips in the world.” When we first learned of its existence while in the Tanzanian bush we knew we had to drive it. The trip that followed was breathtaking and left us wanting more. It is a place that will always require “more time,” because it’s likely you’ll never have enough.''Our North Coast 500 Itinerary''We started in Inverness and ended in Applecross before going on to the Isle of Skye. Since we rented our car in''Edinburgh''and had some spare time on our hands, and were dying to see Skye we decided not to cross back over to Inverness from Applecross (making the whole route “complete”). The whole route below took us eight full days, but we could have easily spent three weeks.''It’s okay if you’re still questioning what the North Coast 500 actually it is – even some Scots that we talked to didn’t know! That’s because the North Coast 500 route is\xa0a fairly new one. Although the roads, sites, and the beauty have always existed in the Scottish Highlands it wasn’t until it was given a name that it exploded in popularity.''The NC500 was coined by the''North Highland Initiative''in an attempt to boost economic activity and tourism in the many pockets of the highlands that weren’t currently benefitting from much of the Scottish tourism. The route runs for more than 500 miles to and from Inverness, the capital of the highlands, and from there you can either travel up the east coast or head to the west and travel up.''North Coast 500 Tips''Don’t Over Plan''With only eight days and a gazillion things to see we knew we would never get to everything…but we tried. We packed in a lot in just over a week. By the end of it all, we wanted to cuddle up on a familiar couch and binge watch Netflix. We moved guesthouses every day which meant we packed\xa0every morning and unpacked every night. Then on top of that we had an itinerary of places to visit, restaurants to eat at, and check in times to manage with our guesthouse owners.''We were constantly late because all we wanted to do was stop enjoy the scenery, take photos, and soak in the atmosphere. Beating time is a losing fight on the North Coast 500 and if I could give you only one piece of advice for this route it would be to not over plan your trip.''So how long does it take to drive the North Coast 500?''While there is no right answer to that as it is really up to you! Before we left for the North Coast 500 we had a full eight-day agenda of all the things we just had to see on the North Coast 500. \xa0We thought eight days would be an ideal amount of time to see everything, but there are so many things that we missed getting to in the end.''In an ideal world, I think that two weeks would be the perfect amount of time to experience most of the North Coast 500.''If you have anything less than five days I would suggest waiting until you have more time to do the full 516-mile\xa0Scottish road trip as you may just be too rushed to enjoy it.''Factor in Stops for Photos''Just because the GPS says it will take you an hour to get from Lochniver to Ullapool doesn’t mean it actually will. The drive on the North Coast 500 is just so mesmerizing you would be crazy to not get out, take photos, and enjoy the scenery outside of your car. If you like taking photos and video like us then it would be advisable to consider your stops when planning your drive. We may or may not have stopped for about an hour to have an impromptu photo shoot with some of the famous highland coos…''Pack Accordingly''“Well, you don’t come to Scotland for the weather,” we were told by many locals.''Weather in Scotland''and the Highlands is unpredictable, to say the least.\xa0 It could be sunshine in November and hail in May. Unfortunately for us, we got all the rain and thunderstorms in September with very little sun or warmth. It was okay because we came prepared for all types of weather.''Which is what we recommend you do while on the North Coast 500. Pack for rain, sun, and everything in between to ensure you’re always comfortable. Some must have items when traveling the North Coast 500 are a''good rain jacket'',''waterproof hiking pants'',''a great down jacket'', hiking shoes, and a nice warm sweater for when it’s a wee bit chilly out. Psst –''Read our full packing guide to Scotland here!''And remember to throw an adaptor in your bag! Scotland uses the standard British three prong pin. You’ll want to make sure you have an adaptor before you set out on this trip so you can always have your cameras and cell phones charged or you may be paying a premium for one at the airport. I have this''universal adaptor''and it has literally traveled with me around the world.''Book Ahead''The North Coast 500 route is gaining in popularity, and at a rapid pace. It’s so popular that many times the supply just simply cannot meet the demand, and people are stuck with no accommodation. This isn’t one of the\xa0places that you can just show up and book accommodation the day before. I know I said not to over plan, and you shouldn’t,''except for accommodation.''I would recommend that right after you know\xa0where you\xa0are going, start to look at your accommodation options and book in advanced.''The North Coast 500 can get very busy between April and October so you may need to book your hotels and guesthouses at least a few months out or you get stuck paying a premium or (even worse) have nowhere to stay.''Check out where we slept!''Don’t Rely on the Internet''Before we left Inverness we picked up a Sim card with the telecom provider “''three''.” We told the employees our plan to drive the North Coast 500 and they immediately told us not to expect the data to work much. We found that we could not get a great signal in most places north of Inverness. Most of the time we had no service at all, while occasionally we could make a phone call, and only when we were in larger towns would we could get 3G.''However, many of the hotels and lodges situated on the NC500 should have WiFi, just don’t expect it to be the greatest. It will most likely be enough to check your emails and do some basic browsing. We met one couple that told us they were still using dial-up because where they lived was so remote. With this much beauty in the Scottish Highlands, you shouldn’t need much internet. It’s the perfect place to come to relax and disconnect for a while.''You Can Get Active''Don’t think that because you are doing one of the best road trips in\xa0the world that you will have to sit cooped up in a car all day. Actually, it’s the opposite! Most of Scotland’s best activities are outdoors. Fancy a canoe paddle or fly fishing? Well, there are a countless number of lochs around! Mountain biking is also at its finest here as well as Seascape tours, hiking trails, castle exploring, waterfall chasing, and even caving.''All of the highlights of our trip involved some sort of outdoor activity. We loved''mountain biking along the heather in Invershin,''cave exploring in Smoo Caves, and then, of course, we can never forget our epic time interacting with some of the many Scottish stags in''Reraig Forest''.''You Can Walk (Almost) Anywhere''I should probably mention that you can walk just about anywhere in Scotland – Yes, anywhere! We were shocked when locals told us we could freely roam around any mountains, moorland, woods, and forests, grassland, fields, rivers and lochs, coastal areas with no worry of trespassing. Trespassing in Scotland is “not a thing.” Coming from the United States where “No Trespassing” signs could be met with prosecution or even worse – a gun nut, we think this is an amazing law.''The''“freedom to roam”''is the general public’s right to access certain public or privately owned land for\xa0recreation. This doesn’t include houses, gardens, or military bases. The right to roam law allows people to enjoy the land and inland water for their own well being. The only stipulation is that you must do so\xa0responsibly and safely.''So, mind the sheep and close the gate!''More info on Scotland’s Outdoor Access Code''can be found here.''You Can Drink!''You’ve certainly heard of Scotch Whisky. The world famous spirit is distilled all over Scotland and it shouldn’t be a surprise there a number distilleries along the route. We personally had time to visit two:''Balblair''and''Glen Ord''which both ran whisky tours around the distillery complete with a tasting at the end.''However, we were a bit shocked when we found out that many Scots don’t actually drink whisky.\xa0These days Gin is the hot commodity and within a few years Gin distilleries have popped up all around Scotland. We were lucky enough to visit one of the first gin distilleries in Scotland on the route,''Dunnet Bay Distillery''. The gin distillery is located in Dunnet not far from the popular stop of John O Groats.\xa0 They make all organic Gin and feature local ingredients from the heather, one of those being rock rose, which provides the name for their signature Rock Rose Gin. It’s wonderful and we highly recommend it!''If hard spirits aren’t your thing then head to a brewery! Yes, Scotland has those too. The''Black Isle Brewery''is a great one to visit and sample some organic craft beers. The brewery is open to visits and if they have the time they’ll take you in the back and show you around. They also brew an NC500 IPA, that is seriously delicious and perfect for drinking on the North Coast 500.''Don’t Drink and Drive''On the topic of alcohol, I suppose I should mention that the\xa0alcohol\xa0limit for\xa0drivers in Scotland\xa0is 50 milligrams of\xa0alcohol\xa0in every 100 milliliters of blood – or in other words – almost nothing. Yes, just one cocktail, beer, or glass of wine can put you over the legal limit to operate a vehicle. \xa0If you are going in for a mid-day whisky tasting, but still have driving to do afterward just ask the staff to wrap up your whisky for you to enjoy later. They completely understand and would rather you be safe than sorry.''The Most Beautiful Drive on Earth!''And we’ve been to a lot of places.''Sixty countries and counting to be exact''. We’ve seen the tides roll in on the''empty beaches of Mozambique'', watched the\xa0sunrise over the''worlds tallest sand dunes in Namibia'', and saw where the hobbits reside in New Zealand. Yes, all those places are insanely beautiful, but the Scottish Highlands are surreal. Rolling hills, dramatic cliff faces, creeping heather, deep blue lochs, and alpine forests? It’s a lot to contend with!''The North Coast 500 route packs in some of the prettiest places in the world. I even started to get just a wee bit annoyed with Cameron because he wouldn’t stop saying “WOW” every time we drove around a bend. I guess what I’m trying to say is''bring a camera''and prepare for your jaw to hit the floor.''The NC500 is NOT 500 miles''Technically the North Coast 500 is 516 miles, but let’s be honest – 500 sounds way better. You don’t have to travel the entire route to take in the beauty though. We met plenty of visitors who came just to travel just for a few days traveling up from the city and either started their trip on the east or west coast.''Please Brush Up on Your Driving Skills''Driving in Scotland''is no joke and it’s important to realize that before you rent a vehicle. For starters, the Scots drive on the left side of the road, with the steering wheel on the right. Now, we are used to this after''extensive driving across Africa,''but many foreigners are not.''Second, instead of stop lights and signs to idle at most of the roads in Scotland run smoothly because of roundabouts. Yes, roundabouts. Those are the circle streets you may get a wee bit nervous about driving on if you’re not used to them. Well, there are tons of them in Scotland which is something we came to realize about five minutes after we picked up our rental car at the airport. Make sure you know the rules of the road and how to navigate these before you drive here.''Third and most important – the roads on the North Coast 5oo are often small single track roads fit for just one vehicle at a time. There are passing points every 400 meters or so to let oncoming traffic get through. The car closest to a passing point should be the one to yield. That does not mean crossing the path of another vehicle into the passing point. If the passing place is on your side of the road you move over, if it is on their side you wait for them to approach you. Always make sure there is enough room on the road to pass, otherwise this can happen:''This was the only road out of town, so the jam held everyone up for an hour while we waited for the police to show up.''These aren’t motorways or highways and there are plenty of sheep and cattle on the side of the road so drive sensibly. To drive the North Coast 500 you must be sensible, patient, and aware of your surroundings. Don’t drive too fast, don’t take photos while driving (yes we saw that many times), and don’t litter – the locals don’t appreciate these behaviors.''If you don’t feel comfortable driving yourself you can always take a tour around Scotland!''There is No “Right Time” To Go''Like most places, the summertime is going to be the ideal time to travel the North Coast 500 in terms of weather. Scotland isn’t known for having weather like the Mediterranean so to increase your chances of sunshine a trip to the Highlands is best done between May and August. However, everyone wants to go during this time of year so you will likely find more people, higher prices, and low accommodation availability.''That being said the North Coast 500 is going to have incredible scenery any time of the year, the weather may just change a bit. You really never know what the Scottish Gods will hand you on your trip. We decided to take our trip in the middle of September in hopes to chase the perfect fall, but instead, we experienced rain and grey skies our entire trip. Good thing we packed rain coats and like editing “moody” photos.''The Trip Can Get Expensive''The UK is not known\xa0for being a cheap place, and the Scottish Highlands are no exception. A combination of transport, activities, food, and accommodation can easily set you back at least\xa0£150 a day per person. Obviously, the more lavish you go the more expensive – and there are''many''lavish places to eat and stay on the North Coast 500. Heck, you can even rent a Lamborghini to do the drive if you want to go all out!''Of course, there are more affordable ways to tackle the North Coast 500. Traveling with a group of friends is sure to bring down your vehicle hire fees and if you are a couple then splitting a hotel room will help your budget. There are many hostels along the way and each main town will have at least one supermarket for you to pick up groceries at instead of eating out. If you’re really up for a cheap adventure it’s possible to cycle the North Coast 500, wild camp, and cook all your food.''The silver lining for foreigners is that since Brexit the British pound has taken a hit so your home currency is sure to go further than previous years.''Car, Camper, Bike, or Walk''You have several different options for travel style on the route. Most people will hire a car or take their campervans, but you can also find some of the active bunch walking or cycling the route. We personally chose to rent a car and drive ourselves around to make the most out of our time.''We found that Europcar\xa0had the cheapest rates, and got ourselves a nice sedan for $30/day.We picked the car right up from Edinburgh Airport when we landed in Scotland. We were a bit nervous for gas prices in the UK but found them''semi-reasonable''at about\xa0£1.20 a liter (we spent about £200 for the entire trip to and from Edinburgh). We never found ourselves too far from a gas station as they are situated in every main town along the North Coast 500.''If you want to try your hand at walking the route you can get support at''World Walkers''to find others who have done it too.\xa0 If you are a confident cycler and want some route planning to check out the''North Coast 500 website.''We love that anyone can do this route regardless of budget. No matter what the beautiful views in the Scottish Highlands are for everyone to enjoy.''I have to note''that although Europcar was the cheapest car rental we found and that check in and out was easy they did TRY to charge our credit card more than they should have after we dropped the car off by adding a day. I would still recommend them, just take note of the charges afterward.''Plan Your Own Trip on the North Coast 500!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''North Coast 500 Accommodation:''The route is packed with cute Airbnb’s and guesthouses,''here is exactly where we stayed on the NC500''. Make sure that you book in advance as demand is high and supply is low.''Here is a coupon for your first stay on Airbnb!''Travel Insurance:''You never know what can happen abroad, and that’s why\xa0we always travel with''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Their plans are flexible and affordable.''Internet:''If you want to stay connected while on the North Coast 500 I would recommend picking up a Sim card and purchasing data in Inverness, Glasgow, or Edinburgh before your trip. We personally purchased 12 GB of data for\xa0£20 with''Three.''Their coverage extended into patches of the highlands and allowed us to at the very least check our emails, Instagram, and Facebook each day. Other comparable telecom companies in the UK include O2 and Vodafone.''Water:''We found the tap water in Scotland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''Adapter:''Remember that Scotland uses the''three-prong British plug''. Make sure you have one for visiting!''Recommended Guidebook:''Lonely Planet’s Scottish Highlands.''Read Next:''Driving Abroad for the First Time, From Europe to Developing Nations''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay • Celebrating New Year’s Eve in Scotland''January 21, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''10 Things to Know Before you Travel to Scotland''November 28, 2017''15 North Coast 500 Tips to Know Before You Go''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Natasha''It shouldn’t be any surprise that more and more people are adding the North Coast 500 to their Scotland itinerary. While the popularity of the''North Coast 500''grows it is now become difficult to find good accommodation within budget. Even with the wide range of great places to stay like old estates, hostels, B&Bs, luxury hotels, castles, and budget hotels it’s still important to find the right place for you.''Like many travelers enjoying the North Coast 500, we stayed at a wide range of accommodation while we drove the route. These are all the great places we stayed on our drive that started in Inverness and ended in Applecross. Note that every one of these North Coast 500 Accommodation providers include breakfast unless mentioned.''Our North Coast 500 Accommodation''Kingsmills Hotel – Inverness''Pretty much every North Coast 500 road trip starts or ends in the highland capital of Inverness. Accommodation is limited for the demand, but those lucky enough to book in advance can score rooms at the Kingsmills Hotel. The Kingsmill is one of the best places to stay in the city. The hotel offers wonderful service based out of a 17th Century residence. Although we personally found ourselves in their new building adjacent the old hotel with larger rooms and a balcony opening out to a golf course. An activity that is certain to be enjoyed by avid golfers staying at the hotel. Our room here was spacious, comfortable, good for business, and modern making it a great base to explore Inverness.''Check Rates Here!''Old Drynie House – Black Isle''This was actually the first “true” bed and breakfast we have stayed at together (even after 60 countries!). It was a splendid experience and the character of a well run Scottish bed and breakfast makes it a must for anyone traveling the North Coast 500. We had a lovely pink room with a fireplace, sitting lounge, and it was even stocked with a nice selection of DVD’s (Tasha was thrilled when she found''Love Actually''). The morning’s breakfast was beautifully served on lovely china in a group setting. The selection of fresh fruits, baked goods, and hot breakfast items was splendid. Having smoked Scottish salmon and eggs in the morning is a real treat''when in Scotland''.''Check Rates Here!''The Old Manse Bed & Breakfast – Invergordon''We were welcomed like family into the Old Manse Bed and Breakfast. The building here dates back to the 1780’s; however, you’d never guess by the well-appointed rooms. The bed and breakfast is perfectly relaxing offering views over the surrounding countryside filled with distilleries and golf courses. The Cromarty Firth close by offer a coastal escape close by. The rooms seemed to preserve all the details of the old home while offering us modern comforts like flat screen\xa0TV’s, WiFi, and a tea/coffee bar. If golf, whisky, or just relaxation is what you have this makes for great North Coast 500 accommodation.''Check the Reviews!''Invershin Hotel – Invershin''This guesthouse makes an excellent stopping point and watering hole if you want to break inland and watch salmon jump up the Falls of Shin. The countryside is filled with lovely forests and small towns, perfect for walkers. This is also the area we went mountain biking around a castle with''Heaven Bikes''! The lively pub has live music and a warm atmosphere that’s perfect for getting to relax and enjoy a wee bit of Scottish culture. Our room here was comfortable, modern, and offered castle views across the river.''Check it out on Airbnb!''Get $40 off Airbnb here!''Natural Retreats – John O’ Groats''This is probably one of the coolest places to stay when it comes to North Coast 5oo accommodation. These glass faced self catering apartments are located in the most Northernly town in Scotland, John O’ Groats, on the British Isle. The modern apartments offer massive glass windows that provide plenty of light in the spacious layouts. They come equipped with awesome features like a mud room, media hub, a large kitchen, a front porch, coffee machine, wood stove, and three full bedrooms making it perfect for families. Waking up to mesmerizing views of the Orkney islands is one of the best ways to start your day on the route. We also loved being able to get cozy next to our wood stove after dinner.''Check Rates Here!''Kyle of Tongue Hostel – Tongue''When you start reaching deep into the highlands of Scotland accommodation becomes pretty scarce. We got lucky and found this cozy hostel as the perfect place to hide from the dramatic weather of''Northern Scotland.''The hostel sits right on the banks of the Kyle of Tongue. They have a kitchen if you want to cook your own meal (as food is not provided) and a living room with a fireplace to warm up after a wet day in the highlands or a long day on the North Coast 500. You don’t have to book shared accommodation either, they have private rooms!''Check the Reviews!''Glencanisp Lodge –\xa0Lochinver''If you’re looking for the perfect gateway into the Assynt then look no further than the Glencanisp lodge. The b&b is the headquarters for hikers looking to explore the Assynt, famed for its mountains, rugged landscapes, and wildlife. It has a large living room with a fire place to get cozy up next to after a long day of hiking. The chefs here also provide amazing food for guests in their recently opened kitchen. We were actually the first patrons of the season and highly suggest you enjoy a meal here!''Check Rates Here!''Poolewe Hotel – Poolewe''This simple guest house is a classic rest stop along the route. They have a no non-sense pub serving up the classic hits at an affordable price. The pub keeps up a lively atmosphere as it’s one of the few watering holes in town. Rooms here were clean and comfortable and the WiFi worked well. It’s not a luxury property, but offers everything a traveler needs on the road.''Check Rates Here!''The Torridon Inn – Wester Ross''The Torridon Inn and Pub are built to serve those looking to explore the area. The rooms inside are cozy and modern with all of the amenities you could need after exploring the Torridon Mountains. The inn and pub and located on grounds right along Loch Torridon and work as the perfect base for a long walk into the region. The pub also serves up some classic Scottish dishes with a modern touch making that makes for a great evening.''These are the hotels, guesthouses, lodges, and B&Bs we stayed at on the North Coast 500. We were there during the middle of September and for the most part they were booked up, which we found was the case for many locations in Scotland. North Coast 500 accommodation books up fast as the route rises in popularity so it’s best to book well in advance especially if you are traveling between May-October.''You can search more places to stay along the NC500 here.''If booking traditional accommodation is not your cup of tea you can also try Airbnb. We use AirBnb all the time because we prefer staying in homes instead of traditional hotels. If it’s your first time using the service click here for''$40 off your first booking''!''Good to Know''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Scotland fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Internet:''If you want to stay connected while on the North Coast 500 I would recommend picking up a Sim card and purchasing data in Inverness, Glasgow, or Edinburgh before your trip. We personally purchased 12 GB of data for\xa0£20 with''Three.''Their coverage extended into patches of the highlands.''Check out the NC500 on YouTube!''Read Next:''What to Pack for Your Trip to Scotland''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''All The Best Travel Songs and Music in one Playlist''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''North Coast 500 Accommodation • Where to stay on the NC500''was last modified:''April 14th, 2018''by''Natasha''Scotland’s weather is pretty notorious. So it’s only natural that the question of what to pack for Scotland comes up a lot. It’s often said of the weather in Scotland that you can receive all four seasons in just one day. In the morning it can be sunny and hot, but by noon it can be a\xa0cold rain with a strong wind and perhaps even hail. \xa0This might make your head explode when packing for your trip to Scotland, but if you keep it simple you’ll travel with no fuss.''The best strategy is to pack with layers in Scotland.''Travelers to Scotland''should always carry the key items – a rain jacket, sweater, and boots.''I’ve been a long time preacher of functionality and packing clothes that can serve multiple purposes. The right outfit can handle just about any environment or weather. We all know how to layer with clothing, but in Scotland, it’s crucial to a successful trip. Layers are not usually the most fashionable thing to wear; however, Scots are well known for being laid back and decent clothing will be totally acceptable in the big cities or hiking in the Highlands.''What To Pack For Scotland''Packing For Scottish Weather''Scotland is a tiny country; however, regions can vary greatly in weather conditions between short distances. It all has to do with the notoriously unpredictable weather in Scotland. A common Scottish phrase that continues to be reiterated is “''There’s no such thing as bad weather, just the wrong clothing''” As we’ve said you can experience all four seasons in one day.''Spring:''The springtime can be one of the best seasons to visit Scotland as temperatures are mild and range from\xa07°C (45°F)\xa0to 13 °C (55°F). It’s a good time to catch some sun, but showers are still frequent. As always you don’t want to be caught without a rain jacket.''Summer:''As should be expected this is the warmest time of year in Scotland. You can expect long summer days as Scotland is extremely high North. Temperatures range on average from\xa015°C (59°F) to\xa017°C (63 °F). It’s always a good idea to have some warm weather clothing for outdoor activities during this time.''Fall:''Autumn weather is probably the most varied time of year in Scotland and can go from mild and sunny to cold and rainy in a matter of hours. On average temperatures range from\xa08°C (46°F) to\xa014°C (57°F).''Winter:''Scotland’s weather doesn’t vary all that much considering how far North the country is located. In the winter time, the average temperature high floats around\xa05°C (41°F) just above freezing. Snow does fall, but it’s mild in most of the low-lying areas of Scotland. The highlands do receive snow in the higher elevations.''What You Should Pack for Scotland''There are a number of staple items that I would recommend everyone bring for their trip to Scotland. Weather will obviously play a massive role in what you\xa0throw in your''carry on baggage''.\xa0After all the travel we’ve done I can safely feel that I have nailed packing for trips. Most travelers, ourselves included, will spend their time outside exploring Scotland’s beauty. The Scottish Highlands beckons all with rolling hills, wildlife, caves, islands, ancient mountains, and stunning lochs (lakes). Did I mention you’ll likely spend a lot of time outside?''Rain Jacket''It should go without saying after all the talk of weather that this is the most important item in your suitcase. You have two options for style of rain jackets. The first one we recommend is a classic''outdoor rain jacket''that is a solid choice for outdoor adventurers. The second option being a''trench coat''for those looking to maintain style while dodging puddles.''Sweater''The sweater is a perfect layer when combined with an outer shell to keep you warm. We purchased wool sweaters from independent retailers in Scotland, but good ones weren’t easy to find. For those with less time a little bit of online shopping for wool sweaters will suffice.''Start here!''T-Shirt''A simple base layer like a t-shirt, v neck, or even a thermal is perfect to keep you warm and comfortable. Hiking on a sunny day in the highlands can actually be quite warm and we found ourselves shedding layers often. Keep it simple when it comes to tees. No one needs a fancy designer tee when as a base layer.''Down Sweater''Down sweaters have long been our packing favorites for any cool weather destination. I don’t think we’d ever travel without them. We both love our''Patagonia down sweaters'', one of the''best packable down jackets''on the market.''Hiking Pants''Technical pants like these''are water resistant and dry quickly, not to mention they’re comfortable on long walks. These pants can be pretty ugly, but if you’re serious about exploring the highlands of Scotland I would suggest picking up a pair.''Women’s''|''Men’s''Jeans''Jeans are always in style no matter where you go, and Scotland is not an exception. The Scots, for the most part do not care what you wear, but showing up to the pub in a damp outdoor wear is a no go. Bring at least one casual pair of pants. I’m a long time fan of''these classic Levi jeans.''Women’s''|''Men’s''Chinos''If you’re spending time in the trendier cities of Glasgow or Edinburgh I suggest having some clothes that are appropriate for city exploring. A pair of chinos works on both sexes and they’re a classic look that when combined with a sweater works well in Scotland. I always''pack a pair of these pants''in my bag!''Women’s''|''Men’s''Boots''NEWS FLASH! It’s wet in Scotland and you can expect a lot of boggy weather so packing a pair of good waterproof boots for hikes is crucial for protecting your feet.''Women’s''|''Men’s''Sneakers''A comfortable pair of sneakers is a great idea for exploring the cities and towns of Scotland. Ever since we lived in New York we’ve been big on walking around cities. Hitting the sidewalk and letting the city unfurl around you is one of the best ways to get familiar with a new place.''Dress Shoes/Heels''The highlands are typically an unpretentious affair (we spent the vast majority of our time in hiking boots). If you plan on spending any time in cities like Glasgow, Edinburgh, or Inverness you’ll likely want a decent pair of dress shoes or casual shoes. We have a whole post on''women’s travel shoes''for the ladies!''Read Next:''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Travel Banking Breakdown: How to Save and Protect Your Money''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''What to Pack for Scotland • The Ultimate Scotland Packing List''was last modified:''April 18th, 2018''by''Cameron''We’ve been on over 100 African safaris now and have finally nailed down what makes the perfect safari shirt. \xa0When you go on a safari you want to make sure the shirt has a decent look and it’s comfortable, but there is much more that goes into a good bush shirt than those two factors.''What makes a great African safari shirt?''Comfort'': With limited space on bush flights you’ll be wearing your clothes multiple times and for long days. So you will want your''safari clothes''to be comfortable.''Material'': A good safari shirt needs to be tailored to handle harsh environments. Bonus for materials that are lightweight, quick dry, sun resistant, and bug resistant.''Compartments:''Decide if you are going to want pockets, buttons, and collars on your safari shirt. I love extra bells and whistles that store my chapstick, kleenex, and lotion.''Durability:''The African bush can be hard on clothes. You’ll want to make sure you are picking high quality and durable clothes. Usually, these come with a higher price tag, but it’s well worth it knowing you have a safari shirt that isn’t going to rip.''Versatility:''You may not have a lot of room in your bag, and you most certainly won’t be able to change your wardrobe a bunch on safari. Clothes that are suitable for both game drives and mealtime are great to have. It’s often you don’t have time to retire for a full wardrobe change before dinner, especially if you get lucky with great wildlife sightings.''Five Awesome Safari Shirts for Women''LE3NO Lightweight Sleeveless Military Safari Vest''Although this is technically a vest I think they look fabulous for women wanting to look fashionable while on safari. The vest goes great with a safari hat and pants. I love this safari shirt design – it’s functional, lightweight, and even has a hood. There won’t be many women with a vest on safari, so this is great for standing out from the crowd!''Check the price for this and more women’s safari clothing on Amazon!''Columbia Women’s Bahama Long-Sleeve Safari Shirt''Columbia makes great products – and the Bahama\xa0African safari shirt is no different. This shirt is 100% nylon meaning it is quick drying. A quick dry technology such as this is great for safari since there really are no washers or dryers and you’ll be drying your clothes the old-fashioned bush way. What I love about this shirt is the Omni-Shade sun protection technology that protects you from the sun. You’ll need sun protection while on safari and this safari shirt acts as a sunscreen without the lotion!''Check for this safari clothing online!''ExOfficio Women’s Bugsaway Breez’R Shirt''This shirt is an insect\xa0and sun repellant so there really isn’t anything not to love. ExOfficio is a well-known retail company that strives in crafting amazing garments. This women’s safari shirt has Flow Thru Ventilation on the front and back to keep cool. There is UPF 30+ Sun Guard in the ripstop nylon and invisible permethrin (insect shield) to repel the insects. The insect repellant is great for countries in Africa''where malaria is prevalent.''Check the price here!''Royal Robbins Women’s Cool Mesh Safari Shirt''This\xa0cotton safari shirt is unlike many of the others on this list. It has a tie waist and roll up sleeves. The chest pockets are secured with a button, making the whole feel of this African safari shirt much more stylish. The shirt is known for being lightweight and breathable, but the black makes it hard to show any sweat you may have (and believe me you will sweat on safari).''Check the price here!''What Happens on Safari Stays On Safari T Shirt''I love this safari t-shirt because it is fun and is guaranteed to get a few laughs while on your African safari. There is nothing particularly special about the materials. Just a\xa0cotton safari shirt that is lightweight. However, they make it in men’s, women, and children’s sizes and make great gifts!''Check the price here!''Safari Shirts for Men''Men’s African Bush Shirt''Tag Safari makes excellent shirts for a safari. All their products are made in Zimbabwe by locals so you know their African bush shirts are about as authentic as they come. With two chest pockets, two chest security pockets, a button down collar, and safari tabs there are a lot of bells and whistles on this classic safari shirt. The whole shirt is double stitched so you know that you are getting a rugged piece of clothing. Tag Safari is known for their great products. I love their mission to help “Africa through trade, not aid.”''Check out more of their products on Amazon!''Check the price online!''Columbia Men’s Silver Ridge Khaki Safari Shirt''This Columbia long sleeve shirt looks great and is well constructed. Made entirely from a nice blend of synthetic materials it allows for quick drying and ventilation in the hot sun. A long sleeve shirt like this allows for greater comfort moving from chilly mornings into hot days. I like the\xa0khaki safari shirt color, but there are plenty to choose from if khaki isn’t your thing.''Check the price online!''Dickies Men’s Long Sleeve Work Shirt''Dickie’s are known for being the working man’s shirt. These shirts are meant to withstand wear and tear, yet look presentable, but not exactly stylish. However, style isn’t always the name of the game on safari. This Dickies shirt is hard to stain and comes in many colors. With flap pockets and synthetic materials, this shirt is a winner. We also talk about the men’s short sleeve work shirt in this''safari clothing post.''Check for this safari clothing online!''TACVASEN Men’s Long Sleeve Safari Shirt''This shirt by TACVASEN can be either a short sleeve or long sleeve shirt. Whichever the style the shirt is made out of tough ripstop nylon. Meaning that this safari shirt is lightweight, breathable, fade resistant, shrink resistant, and wrinkle resistant. It’s made for optimal comfort and durable.''Check the price for this safari gear here!''Propper Tactical''Short Sleeve''Dress Shirt''This short sleeve shirt is made out of Propper’s “Battle Rip” nylon, meaning it is very heavy duty. The fabric is also fade resistant, shrink resistant, and wrinkle resistant as well. The Propper has two chest pockets with button flaps and comes in a variety of colors including olive green, brown, navy, khaki, grey, and black as well!''Check the price here!''Where to Buy Safari Clothes?''We have found the best place to buy safari clothes are online.''Amazon''has great deals and prices and if you are Prime member then two day shipping is free. REI is another great outdoor company to find a variety of safari clothes as well. A few of the best safari clothing brands today are''TAG safari'',''Royal Robbins'',''Ex-Officio'', and''Columbia''.''Read Next:''How to Pick a Great Safari Hat and Protect from the Sun''The Best Safari Boots For Bush Walks''The Ideal Women’s Safari Clothing Checklist''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''The Best Safari Shirts for Men and Women''was last modified:''September 24th, 2017''by''Natasha''When it comes to romantic things to do in New York City there is no shortage of tourists and residents alike. However, we could all use some help from time to time in planning and in a city like NYC we’ve got plenty of great ideas.''There is hardly a better city in the world for a romantic escape. We should know,''we used to live there together!''20 Romantic Things to do in NYC''Stay at the Perfect Hotel''When it comes to New York City hotels it’s easy for the romance to fizzle. The vast majority of hotels are mega hotels with hundreds of tiny rooms. We’ve been in and out of many different hotels in the city and without fail we’re almost always disappointed with room/service to value. However, when it came to''The Chatwal Hotel''we found the perfect romantic escape in the city.''The Chatwal is a part of the Luxury Collection owned by Starwood Hotels, but it operates totally independent from any other Starwood hotel in the city. It’s a 76 room boutique hotel that is right in the center of Midtown, something of a rarity. It’s high on charm and low on the standardized formula of hotels. When it comes to romance no one wants to feel like a number, but when we stayed at the Chatwal we were surprised to find the staff remembered our names and were quick to help.''Rooms here are glamorous and do an amazing job at blending the elements of classic New York with modern hotel amenities. Stainless steel, wood, leather, and furniture that looks as if it were from the mid 20th-century blends seamlessly with Japanese toilets, hidden televisions, and iPad controlled rooms.''Our suite was massive and it couldn’t have made for a better base to explore Manhattan. Our king size bed was fitted with fine linens, the bathroom luxury bath products, and the seating area had complimentary magazines and a bottle of wine. All of which is just an added bonus to the three bottles of water and chocolates by the mini bar. It was all the details that made it the perfect hotel for some romance in New York.''Airbnb is also a great option for accommodation in New York!''Here is $40 off from us to you.''If you’ve never used Airbnb before, read our''insiders guide first.''Try Omakase Sushi''Next, to Japan, New York City has some of the best sushi in the world.''When we lived in New York'', we made it a regular ritual to explore sushi institutions in New York. These fine dining restaurants serve up a signature style of sushi called Omakase. It is a chef-selected meal in which the head sushi chefs curates the best of what’s available in the markets every day and serves you piece by piece. The experience is intimate and relaxing as you dive into the beautiful intricacies of a dish that can be composed of two ingredients. The fish served in the sushi restaurants is curated from all over the world, and utilizes the''New Fulton Fish Market'', which is the second largest fish market in the world.''Recommendations'':''$$$$''–''Sushi Yasuda''&''Sushi Nakazawa''$$$ –''Kura''&''Tanoshi Sushi''$$ –''Sugarfish''&''Sushi on Jones''$ –''Tomoe Sushi''&''Auyo Sushi''Walk the Brooklyn Bridge''There are a few iconic New York Landmarks that everyone should experience and Brooklyn Bridge is undeniably one of them. It’s the one landmark you can find both tourist and locals alike enjoying a beautiful day. The Brooklyn Bridge is one of the oldest bridges in the United States, and at\xa01,595 feet it’s no short distance to cross. Just be warned walking the bridge in bad weather or the winter can be pretty unpleasant! \xa0Some of the best weather in New York City comes in the fall and it’s the perfect time to visit New York City t0 walk over the East River.''Head to the Lincoln Center''Head to Lincoln Center to see some of the world’s best performers. A night at the''Metropolitan Opera House''is highly recommended as world-class talent and impressive set pieces are sure to wow. We’ve been to three shows at the Metropolitan Opera enjoying Carmen, Contes D’Hoffman, and The Magic Flute. It’s the perfect opportunity to put on formal wear and enjoy dinner at''The Grand Tier''before the show.''At the David H. Koch Theater, the New York City Ballet dancers will leave you speechless with their exquisite moves. We loved spending time at the Lincoln Center and in our last six months in New York, we attended two Ballets. If you have not been to the opera please do not write it off. It’s a wonderful chance to get dressed up, have a fantastic meal, and experience a brilliant art that can move and transform you.''Picnic in Central Park''It’s impossible to not love Central Park. The park is an oasis for residents and visitors in one of the most densely populated cities in the world. \xa0Frederick Law Olmsted was a pioneer in landscape design and played a vital role in conservation in the United States. His style of design changed parks and grounds forever as he chooses to design parks around landscapes that are meant to age with time. He broke the mold of straight paths and manicured garden beds and responsible for what Central Park is to this day.''Central Park stretches between\xa059th Street\xa0and\xa0110th Street making up the center of Fifth Avenue\xa0and Central Park West. Just coming to spend a day outside in New York is reason enough to come to Central Park, but there is almost always something on offer. Beach volleyball, paddle boarding, carriage rides, running the loop, Shakespeare, giant water fights, and concerts in the park are all fun ways to spend a day! Of course one of the most romantic things to do in New York City is to have a picnic in one of the many quiets spots within the park.''Catch a Jazz Show''Harlem used to mean scary and dangerous, but lately, Harlem has faced''gentrification''and new wealth in the metropolis. We used to make our way to 114 street all the time to check our new restaurants and bars. One of our favorite things to do here together was to enjoy a jazz show. Harlem has countless clubs to enjoy a live jazz show at, but one of our favorites is Bill’s Place, a speakeasy that has been around since the days of prohibition in the 1920’s. Make a romantic evening here with dinner, cocktails, and a show. If you don’t feel like traveling all the way uptown there are many venues all over the city.''Enjoy a Show on (or off) Broadway''I know it sounds cliche, but if you are into the arts and want to see some of the best actors and actresses in the world then you will have to see a show on or off Broadway. The''TKTS Booth''is a great place to last-minute tickets for shows around New York. Don’t expect to catch the most popular shows as they can sell out months in advance.''However, there are other ways to find''cheap Broadway tickets'', such as discounted tickets for the day of shows at four locations: Times Square, South Street Seaport, Downtown Brooklyn, and the Lincoln Center. I would recommend avoiding the Times Square location as there is usually a long line.''Take a Stroll on the Highline''It’s true that there is not much green space in Manhattan. That’s why in 2009 the''High Line''was formed on the old\xa0New York Central Railroad platform\xa0on the west side of\xa0Manhattan.\xa0The High Line is a one and half a mile long elevated park where you can walk with your loved one and enjoy the wonderful outdoors in New York City. It’s perfect for a romantic date on a nice day. There’s also some great food, a coffee shop, and even a little bar along the walkway making it a great place to come for lunch. From the High Line, we suggest you head to the new''Whitney''location or check out the''Chelsea Market''. We love oysters and you can pick up some fresh ones at the Cull & Pistol oyster bar inside the market.''Have a drink at a Speakeasy''During the prohibition days\xa0in the United States, a “speakeasy” was the term used for the illicit drinking houses used to serve booze in hiding when it wasn’t allowed. They usually had no signs, hidden doors were small, and were often invitation only.\xa0Nowadays, speakeasies are hip establishments that serve up craft cocktails in an imitate the atmosphere. Speakeasy bars are popular in big cities around the world and New York City may be the epicenter of the craze. If you’re in the mood for a romantic trip back in time with some great''cocktails then head to one of New York’s many establishments.''Two great ones to check out are Attaboy and Dinner table!''Head to a Rooftop Bar''Sip on cocktails amongst the rooftops and enjoy views of the New York’s skyline. When it’s good weather New York springs to life with al fresco dining, picnics, markets, festivals, and rooftop bars. There is a wide range of rooftop bars in New York all offering their own atmosphere. You don’t need to take our word for the best rooftop bar because''Timeout has been to them all and breaks down''the best bars for romance or a night out.''We’d suggest you check out Gallow Green and partake in the famed''Sleep No More performance''. The rooftop bar takes on the atmosphere of an old garden party and actors from the play intermix with guests while in character. It’s a one of a kind romantic experience and something that can only be found in New York City.''Explore The Cloisters''The Cloisters is a museum specializing in Medieval history, located at the top of Manhattan on 190th street in Washington Heights. It’s a great place to enjoy nature along the Hudson if\xa0medieval architecture is your thing! Personally, we found the museum to be boring. The dark ages were truly a dark period for art… However, the architecture and surrounding grounds make for an excellent escape from the city. Take a run or bike ride along the west side greenway up the Cloisters.''Spend the day at the MET''The Metropolitan Museum of Art is one of the finest museums in the world. There are a handful of museums everyone in the world should visit, and the MET easily tops the list. It’s a massive collection of art from all over the globe from various time periods. Just be warned the museum is massive and it would take hours to see it all at once, so be prepared to just see a section. The Met is located on the Upper East Side on the edge of Central Park.''Go to the Bronx Zoo''We’ve stomped around in''safari attire''for over 100 days in the''African bush''. So, it’s safe to say we’re not big fans of seeing animals in enclosures or zoos in general. However, we know that not everyone can travel to Africa and some zoos do important work in conservation. The Bronx Zoo is one of the few that is an exceptional example of a zoo. It also happens to be the largest zoo in the United States and it makes for a romantic day together. The zoo does great work with conservation and frequently rescues and rehabilitates endangered species that are found throughout the globe.''New York Botanical Gardens''I know that everyone raves about the Brooklyn Botanical Gardens, but after spending time in both the New York Botanical Gardens and Brooklyn Botanical Gardens I personally think the New York is better. The New York Botanical Gardens are indeed located in the Bronx, but because of their location, the gardens get much less packed than their neighbors in Brooklyn. The NY Botanical Gardens are the largest in the US and are recognized as one of the greatest historical areas in New York.''Get Sweaty''There are hundreds, if not thousands of workout studios and gyms in New York. When we lived in NYC we would regularly try different classes around the city. Anything from boot camps, to spin class, to Crossfit classes. Why not take a break from the touristy things in New York and get active with a unique workout class? You can find them at any day and every hour in every neighborhood.''Or you can try your hand together at activities like stand up paddle boarding, bouldering, or''trampolean''fitness.''Recommendations'':''Peloton''Warrior Fitness Bootcamp''Barry’s Bootcamp''Flywheel and Flybarre''Cliffs at LIC''Head out to Ellis Island''Do you know your ancestry and where you came from? Enjoy your loved one’s company and take the ferry out to Ellis Island for the day! Ellis Island was the gateway for entry into the United States and it is estimated that over 12 million people came through here between the late 1800’s and 1950’s. Ellis Island is open every day of the year besides Christmas and can be reached via ferry from either the\xa0Battery Park or Liberty State Park. I would suggest allocating at least three hours for the trip.''Save money doing this with the Explorer Pass!''Enjoy Nature at Wave Hill''I may be biased because we used to live in the Riverdale, but''Wave Hill in the Bronx''is nothing short of amazing. For a nice, sunny day outside in New York City, we would always escape to Wave Hill where the crowds are low. When Cameron and I were looking for something romantic to do during the day we’d grab some cold brew coffees and head to Wave Hill to enjoy the views over the Hudson River.''People watch at Grand Central Station''I know people watching may sound boring, but when you people watch at a terminal that 750,000 people visit daily it’s bound to pass the time in a fun way! Not to mention Grand Central is over a century old and quite an impressive\xa0sight to see with its 44 tracks. \xa0If you’re already visiting Times Square you may as well walk the three avenues over here as well!''Hudson Valley''Although, it is the greatest city on earth that doesn’t mean you should never leave! One of the most romantic things to do in NYC is to explore the surrounding area. The Hudson Valley is a beautiful region of The United States. It’s filled with wonderful B&Bs, apple picking, museums, and farm to table restaurants. It’s also home to the''Storm King Art Center'', probably one of the coolest outdoor art exhibits in the world.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0NYC''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to NYC:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend a''good guidebook''to get you around the city.''Read Next:''Don’t be a Tourist in New York City''The Five Best New York Coffee Shops''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''How Much Does it Cost to Live in NYC on the Cheap?''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''April 24, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''April 19, 2018''20 Romantic Things to do in NYC for Couples''was last modified:''April 16th, 2018''by''Cameron''There are hardly any activities more intertwined than travel and photography. It’s only natural that as we explore the world we want to try and capture a piece of it to take home. Photographs have the amazing ability to capture moments in time. The perfect travel camera needs to meet a lot of demands and every traveler will likely have their own unique option. A travel camera should be robust, versatile, lightweight, and above all capture tremendous images.''Before we dive into what is the best model of camera let’s break down the various types of camera. There is simply no one size fits all camera. There isn’t even a one size fits all for a certain traveler as each destination may warrant a different camera. For example, what makes the''best camera for safari''may not perform well in the''streets of Greece.''Point-and-shoot cameras are the cheapest and lightest option on the camera market, but they fall short when it comes to image quality. The hot camera product these days are mirrorless interchangeable-lens cameras as they can contain full frame sensors while remaining more compact than a DSLR. A Digital SLR is the classic route and captures amazing photographs with a large selection of lenses, but they’re big and bulky. So what exactly is the best travel camera?''Table of Contents''Best Travel Cameras''Point-and-shoot Camera''Sony RX100''Canon Powershot G9x mkII''Panasonic Lumix DMC-ZS100''Bridge Camera''Panasonic Lumix DMC FZ1000''Canon Powershot SX60 HS''Mirrorless Cameras''Fujifilm XT-20''Sony Alpha A7IIR''Olympus OM-D E-M10 Mark II''DSLR Cameras''Canon Rebel SL1''Nikon D850''Canon 6D''Action Camera''GoPro Hero5''How To Pick Your Travel Camera''Metrics of a Travel Camera''The Best Travel Cameras''Point-and-Shoot Cameras''When it comes to size the best option is by far the ubiquitous point-and-shoot camera. They’re lightweight, durable, and you can stick them in your pocket or luggage with ease. Point-and-shoots today have all sorts of bells and whistles including apps, panorama mode, HDR, and even filters. Some models are even waterproof and shock proof. It’s easy to make the argument that with their simplicity and lightweight body these are the best cameras for travel. Why? The best travel accessory should aid your travels and allow you to capture memories that a bulky complicated camera could easily impede. To bring in that point further camera companies are starting to pack a punch with their point-and-shoot models putting 1″ size sensors in them delivering high image quality in a small package.''Sony RX100''There are five of versions of the RX100 topping out at about $1000 for the premium model. However, it’s the base model at $448 that is our pick as the best camera for travel. For that price you get a fantastic point-and-shoot that is more than capable of producing a great image. It has a 20-megapixel sensor, Carl Zeiss zoom lens, and can shoot RAW images. Best of all, it’s super lightweight and can easily be tossed in your''carry-on backpack''or jacket pocket. What makes this travel camera superior is its superb image quality in a lightweight body.''Weight:''10.5 oz.''Zoom:''28-100mm''Sensor size:''1″''Megapixels:''20.1''What\xa0we like:''Top of the line point-and-shoot.''What we don’t:''High price tag and no viewfinder.''Check the prices here!''Canon Powershot G9X MkII''I’ve been a long time fan of the Canon so I’ve been happy in recent years to see them bring a strong contender to the point-and-shoot market. The G9X is the entry level version of the Canon Powershot G series and is super compact. While it might not have the reputation of the G7 well known by travel vloggers, it is under $400!''The G9 saves money by offering up the same CMOS sensor in the better models without a viewfinder or articulating LCD screen. The lack of an EVF may be a deal breaker for anyone looking to take their photography more seriously, but for those used to shooting with their phone it fits perfectly. The G9X and RX100 have the same sensor and are very close to the same travel camera. However, the RX100 offers a Carl Zeiss lens and the G9X has built in WiFi – it’s up to what the best travel camera is for you!''Weight:''7.4 oz.''Zoom:''28-80mm''Sensor size:''1″''Megapixels:''20.2''What we like:''Great image quality, size, WiFi, and Canon brand''What we don’t:''The zoom leaves a lot to be desired for those looking to grab wildlife shots.''Check the prices here!''Panasonic Lumix DMC-ZS100''This camera is a part of Panasonic’s “travel zoom” and it’s made to be a direct competitor to the RX100. The Panasonic ZS100 has a solid offering of quality, zoom, and size that are sure to wow any traveler. \xa0The camera uses the same 1″ sensor that feels pretty standard and found in other point and shoot cameras. With a 25 – 250mm zoom lens it offers the longest zoom in this class. This amazingly long zoom lens does have one drawback with the wide area of coverage – a slow autofocus. However, the lens is exceptionally small given its range. We also love the addition of an electronic viewfinder!''Weight:''9.5 oz.''Zoom:''25-250mm''Sensor size:''1″''Megapixels:''20.1''What we like:''Long zoom, WiFi, 4k, electronic viewfinder, and touch screen.''What we don’t:''Poor flip screen and slow autofocus''Check the prices here!''Bridge Cameras''Bridge cameras are meant to fill a gap. It means that it fills the gap between the old school point and shoot cameras and the DSLR. A bridge camera has a fixed lens with an optical and digital zoom. It offers the simplicity of a point and shoot with superior image quality. For the price point, it’s a hard camera to compete with! The advantages of these cameras are that they typically house a larger sensor. While the lens is not interchangeable it has a wide range from 25mm to 400mm''Panasonic Lumix DMC FZ1000''The advantages of the Panasonic Lumix is that this camera includes a larger sensor than most bridge cameras and it shoots 4k video. While the lens is not interchangeable it has a wide range from 25mm to 400mm. The sensor is larger than most of its competitors at almost 1″ which means\xa0it is one of the best in a bridge camera. The camera body is a nice build and will feel natural in your hands.''Weight:''29.3 oz.''Zoom:''25-400mm''Sensor size:''1″''Megapixels:''20.1''What we like:''Long zoom with no need to change lenses''What we don’t:''It’s pretty bulky.''Check the prices here!''Canon PowerShot SX60 HS''The SX60 HS is a very affordable bridge camera that’s an easy choice for our favorite bridge camera. It uses a smaller sensor than we’ve seen in the previous cameras, but it has a lower price tag at around $349. The camera offers full manual control, an articulated screen, electronic viewfinder, and it shoots RAW images. The camera build is small and does not feel as intuitive as many other options. It also has poor low light performance, but given the camera is affordable and has solid image quality. Combined with the lens and digital zoom this camera go up to a whopping 1365mm lens equivalent.''Weight:''22.8 oz.''Zoom:''21-1365mm''Sensor size:''1/2.3″''Megapixels:''16.1''What we like:''Super long zoom, small body, price, tilt screen, and RAW images''What we don’t:''Low light conditions, build, and no sensor on EVF.''Check the prices here!''Mirrorless Cameras''Mirrorless cameras are the hot cameras on the market and it’s likely you’ll see a lot of recommendations for them in regards to travel. They can deliver excellent image quality in a more compact size. The mirrorless aspect of this camera refers to its lack of a mirror reflex that is common in DSLR cameras or digital single lens reflex.''This is perfect for people who want professional grade images with the ability to interchange lenses. A feature we love about the mirrorless camera is the electronic viewfinders that allow for you to view your final image in real time, unlike a DSLR. The one drawback of the current mirrorless cameras is the lack of weatherproofing and limited lens variety. However, as the mirrorless camera market increases, I’m sure greater lens options will appear. To get to the point these\xa0cameras are perfect for someone looking to get into travel photography.\xa0In fact, mirrorless cameras have already transformed the market as many travel photographers have decided to ditch the bulky DSLR camera for a mirrorless option.''Fujifilm XT-20''This is Natasha’s camera and it’s probably our favorite camera for travel in our arsenal. So, it shouldn’t be any surprise that we put it at the top of our list of travel cameras. Quite simply we think it’s one of the best mirrorless cameras for travel. The color and image quality of the''XT-20''is fantastic. Photos come out of this camera ready to go! Although, the camera is not full frame the APS-C sensor in the camera is as large a sensor you can get without going full frame.''The camera is stylish and fits in perfectly while walking through a city like New York, Paris, or in the bushes of the''Masai Mara''. With a 24.3 megapixel sensor and a nice image processor, it’s sure to keep more serious photographers happy. The lightweight body feels great in the hands and clocks in at only 13 ounces. To top it off Fuji has delivered a great line of X-Mount lenses. The first time I picked one up I loved the solid construction feel and it’s small size. And of course, the images produced by the lenses are fabulous.''It does have its drawbacks. I wish the LCD screen was touch and articulated so you could use it for vlogging. They also seem to be a little behind on the video with poor autofocus tracking, and\xa0occasional shutter artifacts. With no weather-sealing we often find ourselves leaving the camera in the hotel room when hiking in questionable conditions. With that being said if we’re out in the city or attending an event the XT-20 is what we’ll reach for.''Weight:''13.5 oz.''Lenses:''Nice selection of X-Mount lens by Fuji, but limited compared to Nikon/Canon''Sensor size:''APS-C''Megapixels:''24.3''What we like:''Super long zoom, small body, price, tilt screen, and RAW images''What we don’t:''Low light conditions, build, and no sensor on EVF.''Check the prices here!''Sony Alpha a7R II''You’re now reading about my next camera. I’ve always had a Canon DSLR, but the time is coming where mirrorless will beat DSLR in every single way. And the camera that I consistently drool over is the''Sony A7R II''. I mean not only is the camera silent when shooting photos, but it captures those images in 42 megapixels!''Forty – Two – Megapixels.''The biggest drawback with this camera for travel is its high price tag and despite multiple versions of the camera, it is still not weatherproof. With a back-illuminated image sensor, it has great low light capabilities, and even built in image stabilization. So it’s an amazing camera for a pro travel photographer. Furthermore, the Sony is all packaged inside a body that’s much smaller than any of its DSLR competitors.''Weight:''22.1 oz.''Lenses:''The biggest drawback to the Sony. The best solution used by photographers is an adapter to use other lenses.''Sensor size:''Full Frame''Megapixels:''42.4''What we like:''Leading class image quality! You can not buy a better mirrorless for photographs.''What we don’t:''Poor video, lack of lenses, not weatherproof, and high price tag.''Check the prices here!''Olympus OM-D E-M10 Mark II''Olympus has specialized in mirrorless cameras for a while, but what makes this one shine is its price point. At only $550 the camera delivers a nice image in a small body. It’s also light and easy to travel with. I like the electronic viewfinder, tilting LCD screen, and image stabilization. However, the build quality is not as nice as the Fuji XT-20, but it’s also half the price.''Weight:''13.8 oz.''Lenses:''Leaves something to be desired''Sensor size:''micro 4/3''Megapixels:''16.1''What we like:''Great midrange travel camera''What we don’t:''“Meh” build, micro 4/3 mirrorless, and not weatherproof.''Check the prices here!''DSLR Cameras''We carry both a DSLR camera and a mirrorless camera. DSLR cameras are great for wildlife, landscapes, and they have a wide selection of lenses. My DSLR is weatherproof and when we’re in rugged conditions like hiking in the mountains or driving through a desert I feel confident the elements won’t get the better of my camera. They also have fast frames per second and great long lenses which make them great for wildlife photography''(we’re big time safari nuts).''With DSLR cameras you’ll get excellent image quality, fast autofocus, weatherproofing, and a longer battery life. While I do believe mirrorless cameras will eventually unseat the DSLR king, they haven’t done it yet! They’ve built a massive market share and it’s likely you either own or know someone with at least an entry level DSLR.''Canon Rebel SL1''The Rebel series managed to transform the camera industry placing DSLR cameras with a wide range of controls in the hands of millions. Canon’s Rebel is well known for its ease to use and image quality. Since its original inception, Canon has continued to update its popular series with the latest offering 18 megapixels, video autofocus, and a large HD read LCD. What’s fantastic about this camera is its form and affordability for a travel DSLR.''Weight:''13.1 oz.''Lenses:''Full range of Canon lens''Sensor size:''APS-C''Megapixels:''18.1''What we like:''Market transforming DSLR''What we don’t:''Build quality, low bit rate, no flip screen''Check the prices here!''Nikon D850''Don’t tell the old entrenched Nikon enthusiasts, but the long time camera company has been in hot water in recent years. As Sony and Canon have begun duking it out over the emerging mirrorless and point-and-shoot market Nikon has been left in the dust.''However, with their latest release of the Nikon D850 it looks like they stepped up to the plate for professionals. The D850 is a powerhouse of a travel camera delivering incredible image quality with a 45.7-megapixel full frame camera.When you do the math, time-lapses out of this camera come in at a mind-blowing 8k, good luck finding a''travel laptop to edit''that though. The camera offers 4k full frame video, a touch screen LCD, 7 frames per second, a 153 point autofocus system, amazing ISO range, and exceptional dynamic range. WOW! Just be prepared to cough $3,300 on the camera body…''Weight:''32.3 oz.''Lenses:''Nice selection of micro 4/3 lenses''Sensor size:''Full frame''Megapixels:''45.7''What we like:''Powerhouse delivering the best image quality for a travel camera''What we don’t:''Price places well into prosumer/professional territory''Check the prices here!''Canon 6D''For those who want all the glory and image attributes of a full frame camera in a great build at an affordable price then the 6D is your go to travel camera. While the camera could use some updating it is a full frame camera that is weatherproof and costs only $1300. Plus if you go with the “kit” lens you get the 24-105mm f/4 L lens for $2000. It makes for an excellent camera for outdoor and wildlife photographers with its build quality and lens offerings. The original offering of the camera is getting a \xa0little out of date despite Canon offering a slightly updated version with WiFi.''However, the Canon 6D MK II offers a full frame camera at 26.2 megapixels and a higher dynamic range for $2000 a body. It’s tough to say whether the $2000 is the best value, but it does offer a nice flip screen for vloggers seeking a full frame camera.''Weight:''27.2 oz.''Lenses:''Leading class lens offerings, just be prepared to pay for that''Sensor size:''Full frame''Megapixels:''20.2''What we like:''Full frame Canon camera with weatherproofing for good price''What we don’t:''Getting dated and latest model lacks value.''Check the prices here!''Action Cameras''I’m putting these off to the bottom because they’re pretty quirky and for the price of a GoPro you can buy a decent point-and-shoot that takes far superior images. However, we do travel with an action camera and not a point-and-shoot. They’re super small and phenomenal at going places on other cameras cannot. That makes them perfect for a minimalist adventure traveler. Action cameras are designed for extreme sports so if you like diving, kite-boarding, snowboarding, mountain biking, or skydiving it’s likely you already own one of these.''GoPro Hero5''GoPro is pretty much the only name in the game when it comes to action cameras. We’ve loved our GoPro and have even made''a few posts specific to the camera.''What makes them great is they’re durable, waterproof, and can go anywhere! The latest GoPro now offers image stabilization, full waterproof without housing, and the ability to shoot in RAW. It\xa0also has some nifty features like voice activation.''Weight:''32.3 oz.''Lenses:''Nikon offers large selection of lens''Sensor size:''Full frame''Megapixels:''45.7''What we like:''Powerhouse delivering the best image quality for a travel camera''What we don’t:''Price places well into prosumer/professional territory''Check the prices here!''Best Travel Cameras For Video''Canon 80D''This is one of our primary cameras. I spent some time deliberating what camera would be best for me and I couldn’t be happier. The Canon 80D has a number of strong suits that make it exceptional for a travel camera. It’s weatherproof meaning it will hold up to the elements and we can take it where ever we travel. Also, as an EF mount Canon, it comes with a massive selection of lenses to put on the camera with a vast\xa0selection of quality and price points. Autofocus is decent with 45 points measured and it can shoot 7 fps meaning it’s great for sports and wildlife photography.''The camera has WiFi connection so users can shoot from their phone. A sweet flip screen is great for low\xa0angle ground shots and shooting video. The touch screen LCD makes live video focusing and tracking a breeze. It’s far superior in my opinion to the''7D mkii''that is now three years old and needs an update! It all adds up to a great multi purpose camera. Especially given the rise of video these days I want a camera that takes decent stills and can deliver great video in an easy to use package.''Weight:''25.75 oz.''Lenses:''Leading class lens offerings, just be prepared to pay for that''Sensor size:''APS-C''Megapixels:''24''What we like:''Canon lens, weatherproof, flip screen, fast fps, and autofocus in video''What we don’t:''Not full frame and bulky''Check the prices here!''Canon Powershot G7X \xa0mkII''Over time this camera has become synonymous with vlogging. It’s probably because it’s the best camera on the market for vloggers. It has autofocus, shoots decent video, has a flip up screen, fits in your pocket, and it’s affordable. If you’re a Youtube fanatic (''Follow Us!'') it’s likely you’ve already seen this travel camera hundreds of times. The camera utilizes a 1″ CMOS sensor with the latest image processing software to deliver a wonderful image.''We talked about the lower model G9X and it’s essentially the same camera with better functionality and an improved lens. I personally couldn’t do a camera without a viewfinder and love having a flip screen so the decision is easy for me. However, it’s all about what best suits your photography style.''Weight:''11.2 oz.''Lens:''24-100mm''Sensor size:''1″''Megapixels:''20.1''What we like:''One of the best point-and-shoots available. Oh, and it’s got a sweet flip screen!''What we don’t:''Poor battery life and limited functionality of a point-and-shoot. Render time can slow camera down.''How Do You Pick a Travel Camera?''Consider Your Budget''This one is an obvious criterion. Not everyone has the budget to spend thousands of dollars on a camera, nor should they. There is no point in spending a ton of money on something that will just collect dust or confound the user. There is also that “best bang for buck” aspect. While a high-end professional camera is high dollar the escalation of price makes it a pointless purchase for anyone, but a professional. Even some professionals see the additional cost as a waste! At the end of the day, budget is a personal choice and there are a few things one should keep in mind when purchasing.''If you want to spend under $500 then I’d look at some of the point and shoot models or an action camera like a''GoPro''. You can even spend the money to get a premium phone like the Galaxy S8. I jumped ship from the iPhone and have loved the image quality of the Galaxy S8.''If you draw your budget up to $500 – $1,000- your options widen greatly, that include great mirrorless and beginner level DSLR cameras. Once, you go north of $1,000 you enter the world of “prosumer,” and professional grade cameras. I would only recommend this level of travel camera for photography enthusiasts, bloggers, and professionals.''Assess Your Risk''This is something we always keep in mind in regards to travel. When you’re moving locations and in a foreign country there is a risk that you will lose your camera. Do not buy something you can not afford to be without. We choose to travel with an insurance policy that protects all of our belonging. For non-professionals who need long term policies, my recommendation is a regional insurance provider like State Farm, as they offer personal property insurance. If you’re the average vacationer taking a trip abroad for a month or less take a look at World Nomads. However, if your camera is to be used for business you should look at insurance plans through organizations like''Professional Photographers Association''.''Remember the Additional Costs''Many cameras will require additional accessories such as lenses, tripods, filters, expensive cards, and additional batteries. It always helps to keep in mind additional expenses when determining a budget. For those looking to take photography more seriously, we’d recommend picking up a good tripod at a minimum. There is no point to blow your whole budget on an expensive camera body when you can’t afford to equip it with lenses, tripod, and batteries.Always, think about additional expenses you’ll need when determining budget.''Check Your Travel Style''One should always keep in mind what their travel style is when purchasing equipment for your next trip. Camera sizes are varied and can be as small as a smart phone to a massive professional camera weighing up to 10lbs. About half of my luggage is dedicated to photography, video, and blogging equipment. That’s more than most travelers will ever dedicate to their camera choice.''For our city camera, we use a small mirrorless camera because we find it’s unnecessary to stick out like a tourist with a DSLR when traveling around Europe, or major cities. However, when it''comes to safari cameras'', hiking, and landscape photography we don’t mind the bulkiness of a robust DSLR.''What are your Photography Goals & Experience?''Let’s be real with yourself. Do you have time to learn photography or are you looking for a quick travel camera? Or is this a hobby you want to take seriously. Before you pull the trigger you should weigh what you want out of your camera. Spending a lot on a camera that you will never use is a waste. However, going for a cheap model only to upgrade shortly after getting into photography is a waste as well.''What are the Metrics of a Travel Camera?''Sensor''The sensor refers to the light sensitive chip in every digital camera that interprets how light is perceived to create a digital image. Sensors come in a variety of shapes and sizes and have the most direct impact on image quality. This is the most important aspect of a camera for travel in regards to the final image. Generally the larger the sensor the better the image. It allows for more information to be collected entering through the lens and eventually results in effects like a shallow depth of field.''There are many cameras that employ a cropped sensor. The result is a cropped image because all lenses are measured mathematically for a full frame sensor – the same size as a 35mm film camera. So, when cameras employ a smaller sensor this results in a cropped effect on lens focal length. This means 100mm on a''Canon 80D''is really the focal length of a 160mm lens. Therefore a full frame camera is the go to for landscape photographers, but many wildlife and sports photographers choose a cropped sensor. Think about which kind of photography you intend to shoot. Full frame sensors are generally more expensive and they’re only reserved for professional grade cameras, so they’ll fetch a higher price tag.''Example of a full frame camera''FPS (Frames per second)''This is a very important aspect for many. It refers to how quickly a camera can shoot a burst of photos. With fast moving subjects, you’ll want to capture that perfect moment. This may require a burst and a fast fps. This refers to how many photos the camera can take in the period of one second. This is not the most important aspect; however, it is something to consider when comparing similar cameras. For those looking to get into wildlife photography, sports, or journalism a camera with a fast fps will help give that extra edge.''Lens''The lens is one of the most important aspects when shooting photography. You can have the best camera money can buy, but if you have a cheap lens you aren’t going to get those stellar shots. Many\xa0cameras opt for interchangeable lenses which allow for a wide range of focal lengths to get wide landscape shots and tight close-ups.''When shooting wildlife the far-reaching lens, or zoom is important. Lens distance is referred to as focal length. Focal length is measured in millimeters with a short focal length (<5omm) creating a wide angle image and a long focal length (135mm<) creating a tight/zoomed image.''When it comes to lenses generally wide angle lens are great for landscapes (10-35mm), the mid range is great for for street photography (35-85mm), and long lens great for wildlife and sports (100mm). However, once a photographer understands the characteristics of each lens they can use them in any scenario in order to achieve the desired effect.''Short Focal Length''Long Focal Length''[The two images above\xa0were taken from the same distance.]''Build''Travel can be brutal on just about everything. It’s why everyone talks about having the best backpack, suitcase, jacket, or pants money can buy because when they travel their belongings can go through hell. We’re big fans of spending our time outside and that means our cameras can be exposed to dust, heat, rain, fog, snow, and even ice. While a great camera for travel doesn’t need to be indestructible a good build that is weatherproof ensures its survival.''Professional cameras are built to be weatherproof meaning they can handle the dust, dirt, and rain directly on the camera. I’ve personally carried my Canon camera through rainstorms without fear of it being ruined. There are also a number of cameras that are purpose built to hold up to the elements.''Comfort''How does the camera feel in your hands? Are you going to drop it? Is it heavy? Or does it feel like an extension of your arms and eyes? A travel camera with a solid grip is a life saver\xa0when shooting photos on the road, from moving boat, on top of a mountain, or in a crowded market.''Our Camera Equipment Equipment''Wanna know what our photography looks like? You’ll find some of our''favorite shots from around the world here!''Below is a list of everything we shoot on!''Canon 5d mkIII''Canon 80d''24-105mm EOS L Lens''11-24mm EOS L Lens''24mm Pancake''40mm Pancake''Fuji XT-10''16-50mm''50-230mm''Mavic Pro''DJI Phantom 3 Advanced''GoPro4 Silver''GoPro Session''Samsung Galaxy S8''iPhone 7''Vanguard Alta Pro 263AB''502 Video Tripod Head''Read Next:''Best Travel Laptops and Convertibles to Work on the Road''Best Daypacks For Travel Around The World''We Traveled the World for a Year with a GoPro: Here’s What Happened''This Couples Travel Story Told Through A GoPro''The Best Packable Down Jackets to Travel With''Namibia Photography: Exploring the Country’s Natural Beauty''30 Amazing Drone Photos of Southern Africa You Have to See''Is Cape Town the Most Photogenic City in the World?''23 Portraits of Happiness From Around Africa''13 Photos That Will Make You Put Crete on Your Travel Radar''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Best Travel Camera to Buy in 2018 • Your Ultimate Guide''was last modified:''January 9th, 2018''by''Cameron''Our GoPro is one of our favorite travel cameras. That probably comes as a surprise to most, but they’re nifty little cameras and they’ve managed to build their own unique brand of GoPro photography.''They’re versatile, small, and rugged which makes them perfect for action photography. With the addition of mounts, their capabilities for adventure sports has made them the cornerstone of the sports camera market. What we love about our GoPro is the creativity that it provides us when we’re traveling.''Throw the camera down a small hole, take it snowboarding, attach it to your dog, go scuba diving, or jump off a cliff and you’ll capture all the magic with its wide-angle lens. No the quality of the images are not the best, but not all of us can afford a pricey DSLR with underwater housing that’s able to handle all nature can throw at us.''It’s the accessibility of the''GoPro''that has made them the household name they are today. Since the first-ever GoPro, they’ve continued to improve the camera performance with regularly updating their gear.''If you’ve picked up one of the cameras or you’re getting ready to purchase one you can use these GoPro photography tips to make the most out of the piece tech.''Our GoPro Photography Tips''Get Creative''Our favorite photographs we’ve taken from our GoPro are a result of creativity. We recommend breaking every photography rule you know. Shoot towards the light. Place it on a railing. Point it at the ground. Set it on the ground. The size of the GoPro gives it the ability to go many places that\xa0full size cameras can not. The ultra wide angle also provides a totally new perspective on the world. The GoPro is best when it is used when taken places no standard camera can go.''Watch Battery Life''GoPros have a lot of quirks and they’re definitely not the perfect camera. One of their many drawbacks is a short battery life. You can normally get a few hours of shooting, but it doesn’t last a full day. We like to carry''several spare batteries''when we travel. They also make some great chargers that charge two to three GoPro batteries at once. I’d recommend learning how to condition a battery to increase longevity. The basic premise is by fully charging and discharging a battery 2-3 times before its first use.''Try Underwater Photography''While we love the capabilities of the camera underwater there are a few accessories we would recommend you pick up for snapping underwater pics. At depths greater than a few meters the amount of blue light and lack of red throws the camera’s white balance for a loop. That’s why most serious underwater photographers use a red filter over the lens of the camera. This allows for more accurate photo representation. You can pick up a red filter like the''SANDMARC Aqua Filter for GoPro''.''[click the image above for filter pricing]''Keep Distance in Mind''I recommend you keep in mind how wide the GoPro lens is when taking photographs. With a fish eye lens as wide as the GoPro it helps to get up close and personal with your subjects. GoPro photos excel when a subject is placed in the foreground of the image. However, take the subject or object away and I find the landscape looks flat and boring due to the fish eye lens and small sensor with just an okay image quality.''Think About New Perspectives''The greatest strength of the small action camera is its\xa0ability to go anywhere. Some of our favorite photos come from playing with the perspective of the camera. It’s best to think about how we traditionally see something, and then giving us new perspective. This is a common trick in photography, but with a camera so small and versatile you get a unique advantage.''Fight the Fog''A common problem with the GoPro housing is fog/moisture in the interior of the housing. This happens when you move between different environments rapidly. While it’s possible to combat this by physically allowing the camera to adjust to the environment in advance, sometimes it can’t be prevented.''When diving or snorkeling the water is often much colder than the air so fog is commonplace. We suggest you pick up a couple of''GoPro fog inserts''that will soak up any moisture in the case and keep your camera dry.''Another way to fight fog is to use the open back.''If you’ve got the latest''GoPro Hero 5''you don’t have to worry about a case as the camera is waterproof up to a depth of 10m.\xa0\xa0I love that they made the whole camera waterproof without the need for the housing that can contribute to many GoPro photography challenges.''Take Multiple Shots''Since the screen on the GoPro is so small around the half time you take a photo you won’t see the shot anyways. It’s best to take multiple photographs to ensure you get what you want. When shooting photographs we make sure to grab multiple captures that way we can worry about the details like image composition later.''If you want to save your finger from pressing the shutter multiple times just put the camera in burst mode. You can toggle between time lapse and burst and then adjust the amount of exposures and the time frame between them.''Get a Camera Mount''There are a wide range of products and mounts designed for your camera. Several options online include massive bundles with 20+ items. These bundles seem like a great deal, but most the products are super low quality and you’ll likely only use one or two of the included items – ultimately making it a poor value. Bigger is not always better! \xa0Here are a few of my favorite mounts:''GoPro Vented Helmet Strap'': This mount is great for active travelers. I’ve used it when snowboarding, but it’s pretty versatile. I recommend wrapping it around a backpack strap to record when hiking.''Camera Pole'': Call it a selfie stick, but some time of pole is pretty much necessary to get the most out of your action camera.''Surf Mount'': It’s specialty to one sport, but if you’re an avid surfer this mount is pretty much a need.''Wrist Strap'': When used with the right sport like surfing, skydiving, cycling, or snowboarding you can get some pretty awesome shots with a wrist strap.''Don’t Lose the Camera''Since a major feature of the GoPro is its ability to go anywhere you’re likely going to be taking it in some risky situations. Although the camera is affordable it still costs a pretty penny at $400 so it’s not compltely dispensable. (Trust me, we’ve lost a few and it is always a bit heartbreaking).''The greatest threat of losing the camera is around water sports as it could easily be dropped in the water. While you can go the cheap route and tie a small cord around the GoPro and attach to your wrist or board shorts, GoPro actually makes a''floaty back door''that will keep the camera buoyant in case you drop it in deep water.''Keep the Lens Clean''A common issue you’ll come to find is water drops sitting on the camera lens. It obscures the image and can ruin your results. We always like to keep an eye on our lens and make sure that it is clear when taking photographs.''A great solution to this problem is a water repellant spray solution like''RainX''or any hydrophobic spray.''Use Slow Motion''The GoPro does come with some nice features such as slow motion. \xa0The slow motion captures every second and looks super smooth. Give it a go the next time you’re about to do something awesome. The latest camera can now shoot at 1080p and 120fps – that makes for some amazing slow motion videos.''Use the Plug!''That little white plug included with the GoPro\xa0does in fact have a purpose! The locking plug is designed to reduce vibration noise. When the GoPro is mounted the vibration of the plastic clip can ruin your sound making it difficult to hear what you are doing or saying. \xa0When you plug the rubber into the base it will save your audio. This is especially important during high movement activities or filming in loud environments.''Have Steady Hands''The early GoPro models lack a high ISO and camera stabilization so it’s very common for photos and video to come out blurry as the camera slows down the shutter speed to expose images properly. Keep this in mind when grabbing shots and work at keeping the camera balanced when shooting photos in low light situations like early morning, indoors, evening, and underwater.''With addition of video stabilization the''GoPro Hero5''does have improved photo and video capabilities.''Edit Your Photos''Ever wonder why professional photographs look so much better than yours? It’s because we edit all of our photographs using specialty designed software. We personally pay for a premium software called''Adobe Lightroom & Photoshop''. The software is not cheap and it’s designed for enthusiasts and professionals, but there are a plethora of free photo editing programs for your photos. Some great options would be VSCO, GIMP, and The Nik Collection.''Summary''We love the capabilities of the GoPro. It’s the perfect way to create photos and videos to share with anyone and it’s size allows users to pull it out anywhere. The camera hits the mark by being simple to use while still packing in various features not found on a traditional point and shoot. Even though we travel with three camera and two drones, we still love using the GoPro for adventure activities. We love it and if you utilize some of these GoPro photography tips I’m sure you’ll fall in love too.''Read Next:''We Traveled the World for a Year with a GoPro: Here’s What Happened''The Best GoPro Accessories For Travel and Adventure''30 Amazing Drone Photos of Southern Africa You Have to See''Five Adventures in Cape Town You Need to Try''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''How to Excel at GoPro Photography and Make Your Travel Pics Shine''was last modified:''September 11th, 2017''by''Cameron''Would it be cheesy if I told you that I read travel quotes on Pinterest for inspiration? Would it be even worse if I told you that there have been a couple travel quotes that\xa0drove me to book a flight?''For over four years, Cameron and I have been traveling the world together. We are incredibly fortunate to be able to share our memorable travel experiences with our someone special. Traveling as a couple pushes you to learn new things, learn to compromise, and learn to have patience with one another. I may be corny, but I love romantic travel quotes. So much so, I wanted to share these romantic travel quotes with you. Just in case you are on the fence about traveling with a partner these should push you over the edge. Or maybe you already travel with your loved one and just want to read some nice and sappy travel quotes for couples!''Romantic Travel Quotes for Couples''“A''journey''is like marriage. The certain way to be wrong is to think you control it.” –''John Steinbeck''“Actually, the best''gift''you could have given her was a lifetime of adventures.” –''Lewis Carroll''“It doesn’t matter where you are going,\xa0it’s''who you have''beside you.” –''Annonymous''“Love is the food of life, travel is''dessert''.”\xa0–''Annonymous''“The travel''impulse''is mental and physical curiosity. It’s a passion. And I can’t understand\xa0people who don’t want to travel.”''–\xa0Paul Theroux''“The more I''traveled''the more I realized that fear makes strangers of people who should be friends.” –''Shirley MacLaine''“There is no end to the''adventures''we can have\xa0if only\xa0we\xa0seek them with our eyes open.” –''Jawaharlal Nehru''“The journey of a''thousand leagues''begins beneath your feet.”''– Lao-Tzu''“One’s''destination''is never a place, but a new way of seeing things.” –''Henry Miller''“I love waking up in the morning not knowing what’s gonna happen or who I’m gonna meet,''where I’m gonna wind up''.” –''Jack Dawson''“And the''purpose of life'', after all, is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.” –''Eleanor Roosevelt''“People never forget two things, their''first love''and their first day in New \xa0York City.” –''Anonymous''“No one realizes how beautiful it is to travel until he comes home and rests his head on an old''familiar''pillow.” –''Lin Yutong''“I’m in love with cities I have never been to and''people I have never met''.” –''Anonymous''“You are never''too old''to set another goal or to dream another dream” –''CS Lewis''“We take''photos''as a return ticket to a moment otherwise gone.” –''Anonymous''“There’s no time to be''bored''in a world as beautiful as this.” –''Anonymous''“Let’s never come here again because it would never be as much''fun.''” –''Lost in Translation''“The most''beautiful''thing in the world, is, of course, the world itself.” –''Wallace Stevens''“I have found out there is no surer way to find out whether you like people or hate them than to''travel''with them.” –''Mark Twain''“Traveling is like''flirting''with life. It’s like saying, “I would stay and love you, but I have to go; this is my station.” –''Lisa St. Aubin de Teran''“What we find in a''soulmate''is not something wild to tame, but something wild to run with.” –''Robert Brault''“Though we travel the world over to find the''beauty''we must carry it with us or we find it not” –''Ralph Waldo Emerson''“Life is just a''journey''” –''Princess Diana''“A journey is like''marriage.''The certain way to be wrong is to think you control it.” –''John Steinbeck''“Man cannot discover new''oceans''unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.” –''Andre Gide''“Shoot for the moon, even if you fail, you’ll land among the''stars''” \xa0―''Cecelia Ahern''“Travel only with thy equals or thy betters; if there are none,''travel alone.''” –''The Dhammapada''“If happiness is the goal –''and it should be'', then adventure should be top priority.” –''Richard Branson''““Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn’t do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails.''Explore. Dream. Discover''.” –''Mark Twain''Check out our latest adventure together!''Read Next:''50 Short Travel Quotes to Inspire You to TRAVEL''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''My 25 Best Travel Tips From Traveling 60+ Countries in my Twenties''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''Travel Banking Breakdown: How to Save and Protect Your Money''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''30 Romantic Travel Quotes for Couples''was last modified:''February 10th, 2018''by''Natasha''The following is a guest post from Barbara at Jet Settara. She has traveled China extensively, while we have not.''I visited''China''in June and it was sizzling hot and sometimes humid as well. The country had really hot summers, but at the same time it is important to pack warmer, comfortable clothes for the plane ride or sports gear in case you go hiking. I usually pack a nicer dress and a nice pair of shoes for a night out. There are lots of great sites to visit in China and you want to make sure you are comfortable the whole time. It’s also important to dress fashionably as many of the Chinese are very stylish.''An Ideal Packing list for China''Travel Essentials:''Comfortable Shoes or Flip-Flops''If you are one of those people who like to wear sneakers while sightseeing, bring a pair of those. In the Summer, I usually wear the most comfortable flip flops I have. These are made by''Reef''and these are the shoes I wear the most during the Summer months. I can walk around in these flip flops for eight hours a day without a problem. The bottom of these flip flops are soft enough to make walking extremely comfortable. I normally pack a pair of sneakers too that will definitely come in handy if you climb the Great Wall of China or do some hiking. Check out this list of the best''women’s travel shoes''for more suggestions.''Foldable Bag''I take a''packable day bag''that I can easily fold up if I have to put it in my''carry on luggage''. This bag is large enough to fit my laptop and camera inside it and all the other things I carry around during the day.''Earplugs and Eye Mask''I never go on a trip without''earplugs and eye mask''. Many hotels are noisy and earplugs are necessary to screen the noise. They are also great if I want to get a great sleep on a bus or plane.''Sunglasses and Sunscreen and a Hat''The sun is very strong in China during the Summer. For this reason, lots of people walk around with an umbrella to protect themselves from the sun. It is crucial to bring''sunglasses''to Asia during the Summer. Those who are sensitive to the sun and want to prevent sun exposure, should also bring a''sunhat''as well. Sunscreen is never a bad idea and I would recommend picking it up before traveling as it may not be available abroad.''Electronics to bring to China''I travel with lots of electronics. My favorite''travel laptop''is my MacBook. I also never travel without my camera. I use a''Sony RX100 II''and find it to be one of the best pocket cameras on the market. I take a''GoPro''and a selfie stick everywhere I go. Sometimes I even bring a''photography tripod'', when I travel alone. I also carry''a power bank''and''1TB external drive''to save photos on it along the journey.''Clothes to bring to China''The clothes I try to bring for an adventure trip are comfortable t-shirts, skirts, shorts, and dresses, which will not get wrinkled in a bag and also not take up too much space. I leave heavy dresses at home especially those that need to be ironed before wearing.''Underwear are light and small enough to store, so bring one pair for each day you are in China. You never know when you will be able to wash your clothes!''I also like wearing earrings, rings and hair clips to decorate myself when I go out. \xa0As always, I would advise against wearing expensive jewelry when traveling.''Toiletries''In my''travel toiletry bag'', I always have sunscreen, mosquito repellent, small shampoo, conditioner and shower gel. An all purpose cream for wounds or cuts is great for those just in case scenarios. I bring''aloe vera gel''with me for mosquito bites and for sunburn.''Plan your Trip to China:''Accommodation in China:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''or to feel more at home in China try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Adapter:''Make sure that you have the''right adaptor for China''before you go.''About the Author'':''Barbara is a London based luxury travel and lifestyle blogger of''jet-settera.''She blogs about exclusive destinations and the some of the most prestigious events around the World such as Venice, Cannes, San Sebastian Film Festivals, Oscar Parties in LA, Fashion Weeks in Milan or Paris, yacht parties in St-Tropez as well as Prince Albert’s wedding in Monaco. She has lived in seven countries and visited 74.\xa0Find her on''Facebook''and''Instagram.''A Girls Packing List for China in the Summer''was last modified:''September 6th, 2017''by''Cameron''Getting ready for an amazing safari in Africa? You may already have the''destination in mind'', plane tickets booked, and reservation at a''dream inspiring African lodge''. The next step is to gather all the safari gear you will need to get you through this trip.''We have been on over 100 safaris and can’t recommend sturdy and quality gear enough. Why? If you go cheap on safari bags or safari clothes in Africa and something goes wrong there is no replacing them on short notice.''However, with so many options to choose from it can be hard to pick a safari bag that matches your style and comfort. Don’t worry though! We’ve got you covered with our favorites ranging in all shapes, sizes, prices, and even colors.''The Best Safari Bags''Texbo Cowhide Leather Vintage Big Travel Duffle''Texbo has a few different bag variations'', and they all are high-quality leather products that are built to last. This leather bag is thick, durable, maintains a vintage look despite being brand new. The bag has two side zipper pockets on the outside, an interior pocket, a front zippered pocket, and one main compartment large enough to fit all you need for a week-long safari in it. It’s also sturdy enough to protect''electronics like a laptop''or a''safari camera''. The bag itself weighs\xa01.8kg.''Despite being a resident of North Carolina for over a quarter century of my life, until a few weeks ago I’d never been to Asheville. A city that’s well known across the country for its charismatic charm, breweries, grand estate, waterfalls, and the scenic Appalachian Mountains. When you add it all together it makes for the perfect romantic weekend in the Smoky Mountains.''Once we finally made our way to Asheville we found a city ideal for couples. If you’re looking for a romantic getaway in North Carolina then look no further than the mountains. Escape with your loved one to this small Appalachian city packed with plenty to do, eat, and see.''10 Ideas for a Romantic Weekend Getaway in Asheville, North Carolina''Go Chasing Waterfalls''The smoky mountains are some of the oldest mountains on earth and at one point reached as high as the rocky mountains. Now, after centuries of erosion, we have their present landscape or rolling hills and thousands of rivers and streams. Within a short distance of Asheville are dozens of waterfalls that are all a short drive from the city center. Just make sure to bring a bathing suit as the waterfalls are perfect to take a cool swim in the summer.''One of the best spots to head close to Asheville is''The Dupont State Forest''. Trails are well marked and it’s possible to do a short three waterfall hike in under two hours. However, we brought a picnic lunch and made a day out of lounging by the waterfalls.''Take a Hot Air Balloon Ride''If you’re truly looking for a spectacular romantic getaway experience around Asheville then a hot air balloon ride over the mountains will do the trick. We’ve taken''hot air balloon flight''a handful of times and cannot recommend them enough. However, they often come with a high price tag so it may not be the best value activity.''Have a Picnic''Head to one of the two amazing National Forests in the area and bring a packed bag. The Blue Ridge Mountains have long brought vacationers looking to escape the heat in search of beautiful vistas.''Pisgah National Forest''is a short drive outside of Asheville and it’s an amazing place to explore for the day. Find rolling mountain fields and dense Appalachian Blue Ridge Forests along winding trails.''When packing a picnic we always go light. Classic staples for a successful picnic include a light wine like Sauvignon Blanc, Rose, or Pinot Grigio. Then we like to pair it with two great kinds of cheese like aged clothbound cheddars, chevre, aged gouda, brie, or aged sheep’s cheese. When it comes to fruit go seasonal and pick up some local items like berries in the spring/summer and apples/pears in the fall/winter. Pick up some bread or crackers and add a pre-made tapas like dolmades for the perfect romantic picnic in the sun.''Enjoy the Biltmore Estate''You’re likely to see the''Biltmore Estate''mentioned in anything you read about Asheville and it’s for good reason. The famous estate is the largest private residence in the United States and built by''George Vanderbilt'', heir to railroad fortune. His massive home sits on a grand estate adjacent to the city and has been entertaining guests since it first opened its doors in 1895.''We spent a whole day on the estate and would suggest''at least''several hours to fully enjoy the Biltmore too! Start the day with a\xa0tour of the 178,926 square foot house with 250 rooms. After you finish up the tour go explore the gardens and the rest of the estate designed by famed landscape architect Frederik Olmstead. For those of you who don’t know, that’s the guy who designed Central Park in Manhattan.''Afternoon tea at the Biltmore Inn is another amazing experience to have. We’ve done Afternoon tea at other hotels and have been disappointed, but the Inn managed to thoroughly impress us. If you’re looking for a special experience filled with loose leaf tea, fresh pastries, and macaroons this is something we highly recommend. Also make sure you leave time in your day to check out the Biltmore Winery with your free tasting ticket.''Cruise along the Blue Ridge Parkway''Take to the road and spend a few hours exploring one of America’s most scenic drives. The 469-mile scenic road passes right through Asheville and makes for a''fantastic place to road trip''. I’d recommend starting in the afternoon after a morning hike to catch it in the evening light. Or you can make a full day out of it touching on hundreds of trails and various view points that are located along the beautiful road. If you’re visiting in during the''fall season'', be prepared for a crowded road as ten’s of thousands “leafers” are in search of the stunning fall colors.''Indulge in some Chocolate''What’s more romantic than tasting decadent chocolate?''The French Broad Chocolate Lounge''offers an amazing selection of sweet temptations. We just followed the line out front to find a tasty liquid truffle. They also offer tours of their factory and you can see how they handcraft their wonderful chocolate.''Catch Sunset at the Omni Grove Park Inn''Head to the top of Asheville’s most famous hotel for some sunset drinks. The iconic Inn has sat atop Sunset Mountain for over a century, and offers\xa0an amazing view of the western mountains. The old hotel was built using giant boulders from the surrounding mountainside. All sorts of famous guests have stayed at the grand lodge including ten U.S. Presidents. We recommend that you catch the sunset while dining al fresco or unwind in their subterranean spa experience. There’s no better way to spend a romantic weekend in North Carolina than this.''See A Show''Although it may not be Nashville, Asheville is still considered one of the “Greatest Music Cities” in the United States. There are a number of music halls like''The Orange Peel'', neighborhood bars, and even the streets of downtown play host to some of the best in local and national touring musicians.''Go Beer Hopping''Are you a romantic couple that also likes drinking beer together? Asheville is the mecca place for craft beer enthusiasts on the East Coast. The secret ingredient is the mountain-filtered water, making for some of the most sought-after ales, stouts, and sour beers in the southeast. With more breweries per capita than many other cities in the United States,\xa0you’ll have plenty of beer options to consider.''Dine The Night Away''Despite only having a population of around 80,000 Asheville packs a number of great places to share an intimate meal together. Check out below for our romantic dinner suggestions.''Take a Spa Day''Take advantage of any number of the Asheville’s numerous spas. One of our favorite activities as a couple is to relax the day away together at the spa. Asheville’s day spas and resorts are great at catering to couples, with many offering couples massages and\xa0treatments for both sexes.''Best Places to Stay in Asheville''Windsor Boutique Hotel:''Located in a former office building that was built in 1907 this hotel will be sure to set the mood of a romantic trip. The old building has been converted into a boutique hotel with large suites for each guest. Despite having a modern facelift all of the charm of a century old building seems to have remained with beautiful floors and windows.''Each room at''the Windsor''is more of an apartment with a full kitchen, private bedroom, washer and dryer, and living room. We loved the attention to detail throughout the hotel and found the overall artistic design gorgeous. The best part about the Windsor, however, was the location. Situated right on Broadway street The Windsor is within walking distance to all the best shops, breweries, and restaurants in Downtown Asheville.''Regardless of the duration of your stay, the Windsor will make you feel at home.''Check room rates here!''Hotel Indigo:''If you’re looking for a no fuss option for your stay in Asheville then check out''Hotel Indigo''. Hotel Indigo is a modern hotel with some trendy design elements. The hotel is located downtown and is within walking distance to all of the restaurants, art galleries, and shops.\xa0Hotel Indigo features cozy and airy main lobby and inviting guest rooms with massive beds, unique murals, and large bathrooms. There’s even a fitness studio with cardio equipment and free weights to keep in shape in case you don’t have time to hike.''The hotel is a great option as it has all the creature comforts one could want at an affordable price. At less than $200 a night, it comes in at about half the cost as The Windsor and a sixth of the Biltmore Inn. There’s on site valet parking here, a business center, bar, and even a restaurant. One of the best things about Hotel Indigo is that it is pet-friendly – perfect for those traveling with their furry loved ones. \xa0We were super comfy our entire time at the Hotel Indigo and thought the staff and rooms\xa0were fantastic. Can’t wait to return one day.''Check room rates here!''Where To Eat in Asheville''Wicked Weed Brewery''– A much loved local brewery with the perfect taproom in the back to relax with a cold brew.''White Duck Taco''– Taco shop serving up some delicious and innovative double corn tortilla tacos.''Highland Gaelic Brewery''– The first craft beer in Asheville and one of the first in the state. There Gaelic Ale has long been one of my favorite beers made in NC.''Curate''– This is the “it” place in Asheville right now serving up Spanish tapas. Dinner reservations are advised. We showed up without one on a Tuesday night and were turned away.''Trade & Lore''– The best coffee shop in Asheville.''Green Man Brewery''– Great brewery with some fantastic options.''Rhubarb''–''Amazing farm to table cuisine with a James Beard Award winning chef at the helm.''Top of The Monk''– Cocktail bar that serves up fresh cocktails above the Thirsty Monk a great brewery in downtown Asheville.''Green Sage Cafe''–''Great cafe for fresh lunches and breakfast.''Biltmore Inn''–''Their fine dining restaurant is perfect for a memorable romantic dinner. And their lounge serves up an amazing afternoon tea with a piano player.''Biscuit Head''–''The name says it all. Come prepared for some awesome southern biscuits and clogged arteries.''Tips For Traveling Asheville''Many breweries are within walking distance from each other around the downtown area. However, when heading to the more remote breweries don’t worry about driving as the''Brews Cruise''will safely deliver you.''Every Friday night between 6pm – 10pm there is a drum circle in Pritchard Park. Anyone is invited and it’s a fun atmosphere for all.''There are two seasons to know in Asheville. That is when the wildflowers bloom between April and June and the fall foliage season begins around September/October.''The Biltmore Estate is one of the most popular tourist attractions on the East Coast, and certainly the most popular for Asheville. That can mean big crowds in the summer and Christmas season. If you want photos of the famous estate without people in them then head there early in the morning.''If you want to try your hand at the Appalachian Trail it’s not far from Asheville. Head to the''Max Patch Mountain trail''for a short hike and amazing views.''Read Next:''10 Romantic Getaways in Michigan To Escape Everyday Life''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''The Best Carry On Luggage For Your Next Trip''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Romantic Getaways in North Carolina • Asheville Edition''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Cameron''The best hiking backpack for you can make or break your next trip. We all want the perfect pack that is comfortable, organized, light, and rugged. With summer 2018 right around the corner, we have several hikes planned and can’t wait to get into the mountains and on the trail.''We searched for months before we nailed down the best hiking backpack. There are so many online and in outdoor stores to choose one or the right one can be downright daunting. There are so many things to consider when buying a trekking backpack.''This collection of backpacks all excel at overnight and multi-day treks. They’re leading in class for comfort, durability, organizations, and most importantly weight.''Best Hiking Backpacks''Osprey Atmos AG''*Best Overall Men’s Hiking Backpack*''This is the pack Cameron carries and its treated him exceptionally well. The Atmos has two size options with a 50L and 65L that should fill the need of most needs from short overnights to extended treks. Don’t be afraid to load the bag up as I can carry 40lbs and it still sits comfortably on my back. This top loading pack has a removable floating top lid that can be utilized to lighten your load. As well as an internal frame and side compression straps that when combined with its anti-gravity back panel make for great weight distribution.''I also love the dual front paneled pockets, a mesh area for dirty shoes, and straps for your tent poles. To back it all up, Osprey has one of the best guarantees in the business. They have been designing great bags for years now so it shouldn’t be any surprise they make one of the best hiking backpacks on the market.''Weight'': 4 lbs. 9 oz.''Fabric'': Nylon (100D x 630D)''Capacities'': 50, 65L''Pros'': Amazing suspension system and strong construction''Cons'': Only top load access and it does not sit up right. It seems silly but with only a top load it’s a PIA.''Check the prices here!''Osprey Aura 65''*Best Overall Women’s Hiking Backpack*''The Osprey Ariel is the perfect women’s trekking backpack. It’s a great all around bag built to fit a woman’s torso. Made of Nylon ripstop material it comes in two sizes 55L and 65L. Complete with a custom fit and interchangeable IsoForm5 harness and even a padded hip belt the Ariel is great for long hikes.''Its Anti-Gravity technology is throughout the entire back and can be found in the lightweight mesh material in the upper torso and lumbar area. My favorite feature of the Ariel is the convertible top lip day back which can be removed if you want to climb a nearby peak without the entire pack. The pack has trekking pole attachments and hydration sleeves to keep hydrated. With their LightWire peripheral frame, the Ariel is also one of the lighter backpacks on this list.''Weight'':\xa04.42 lbs''Fabric'': Nylon (210D & 630D)''Capacities'': 65L & 50L''Pros'': Strong construction, anti gravity system,''Cons'': Top Load Access like Atmos''Check the prices here!''REI Co-op Flash Pack 45 Pack''*Best Small Hiking Backpack*''We love to shop at REI and love the gear the design. It’s often a great value and we’ve personally used their backpacks for years. The Co-Op Flash Pack is made out of ripstop nylon and is a great 45 L trekking backpack for both men and women. With 45L it’s manageable for a gear-heavy day hike or even an overnight. The REI compression technology helps keep your belongings up and in to help your balance, stability, and posture while hiking. Its super lightweight frame is great and really appreciated on the trail.''There are attachment loops on the front to allow ice axes, poles, and other tools to be stored as well as snappable water bottle pockets on the hip belt. \xa0The mesh back panel allows for airflow keeping you cooler when walking in the sun and the removable top lid offers customizable pack volume. We think this pack is perfect for those on a long weekend hiking trip in the mountains or on cross-country trails and has even been named the “Best Women’s Fit” backpack by Backpacker Magazine.''Weight'': 2 lbs. 12 oz.''Fabric'': Nylon (420D)''Capacities'': 45L''Pros'': Lightweight, manageable, nice features''Cons'': Too small for any longer than three days''Check the prices here!''Teton Sports Scout 3400''*Best Hiking Backpack for the Money*''This durable top hiking back is one of the cheapest on the market and is suitable for men, women, and even children. The internal frame makes the Teton an excellent choice for camping and hiking. Even though this pack is well under $100 it still has sturdy zippers, open-cell foam lumbar pad support, and extra padded waist and shoulder straps.''There are loops for your ski poles. Although this pack is not waterproof it comes with an integrated rain fly for when you get caught in a downpour. There is no bladder included, but there are side holsters to place your water bottles while trekking. In our opinion, this pack is one of the best packs you can get for your money. It might not be the right fit for serious hikers, but those just getting their toes wet will love its affordability.''Weight'': 4 lbs. 8oz.''Capacities'': 55L''Pros'': Affordable, nice features''Cons'': Cheap feel, okay suspension,''Check the prices here!''Hyperlite Mountain Gear 3400 Southwest''*Best Ultralight Backpack*''This is easily one of my favorite packs on the market.\xa0The material in this bag has allowed for weight previously not seen. It’s impressively strong, super lightweight, and close to waterproof. Hyperlite Mountain Gear specializes in building outdoor gear with this special material called Dyneema Composite Fabric. Their backpack line comes in a number of sizes, but the 3400 is their middle of road backpack with 55L of storage.''If you’re big on buying American made this company is based and manufactures in Maine, bonus point.\xa0The higher price point may deter some, but it comes with the territory of buying top of the line materials. If you do purchase expect these packs to last for years of heavy usage.''Weight:''2 lbs. 0.6\xa0oz.''Fabric:''Dyneema''Capacities:''40, 55, 70L''Pros'': Lightweight and water resistant''Cons:''No organization features''Check the prices here!''Osprey Levity 60''This is Osprey’s answer to the wide range of ultralight packs popping up everywhere these days. The bag weighs less than 2lbs which is pretty amazing while still providing you with a metal frame. Like most Osprey packs it has a solid construction. Despite its lightweight build, the bag is surprisingly robust and the straps sit well on your shoulders and back.\xa0The vented back ensures you don’t overheat when carrying the pack.''Weight:''2 lbs. 0.6\xa0oz.''Fabric:''Nylon and\xa0Silnylon (100D & 300D)''Capacities:''45, 60L''Pros'': Lightweight and water resistant''Cons:''Like the Atmos it falls over and is top loading.''Check the prices here!''Gregory Baltoro 75 Pack''Gregory has been building bags for a long time so they know how to build a quality pack. This hiking backpack is a workhorse designed to be used and abused. The Baltoro is designed to carry a heavy load without breaking your back on the trail. It has a nice suspension system with plush padding and great organization.''A comfortable mesh backpack makes for good ventilation and it has great features like a built in rain-fly. It’s still a heavy pack, but with the quality of the build and heavy load capability it’s a strong backpack.''Weight:''4 lbs. 10 oz''Fabric:''Nylon (210D)''Capacities:''65, 75, 85, 95L''Pros:''With a large capacity and great suspension you could live out of this pack.''Cons:''Heavy bag with lots of compartments''Check the prices here!''How to Choose a Good Hiking Backpack?''Price''The first thing to think about when it comes to picking a great hiking backpack is your budget. Good quality backpacks are expensive, but you also don’t want to blow your entire budget on a backpack. However, if you invest in one of the best hiking backpacks on the market chances are it will stand the test of time. Many companies like REI, Osprey, and The North Face will offer to repair your products.''Comfort''Like with anything, make sure that the hiking backpack you choose is comfortable on your back. You should be able to hike comfortably for at least two hours. When buying online it’s a good idea to check the return policy in case the backpack does not fit you the way you would like.''Design''A hiking backpacks design capability is crucial. A good backpack doesn’t necessarily mean a bunch of bells and whistles. Make sure you narrow down if you want a top loading backpack or front loading, and check for any extra\xa0straps, harnesses, zippers, and clips you may or may not want and need.''Material''Make sure you pick a hiking backpack that is made out of good material. Most backpacks are made out of either\xa0Ripstop Nylon or Dyneema. Dyneema is generally more expensive since it is lighter, but both are extremely durable.''Volume/Frame/Weight''Determine everything you will want to carry in your backpack for that will determine the volume bag you buy. A good starting point is 40-50L. You’ll want to choose a relatively lightweight backpack since you will be hiking with it for long treks. A backpack can easily be your heaviest piece of gear so choosing something lightweight could make all the difference for your comfort. And finally, choose a frame that serves its purpose for what you need. If you are carrying a lighter load then a lightweight frame is a great option, same goes for the opposite.''Trip Length''It’s important to consider your trip length when picking a hiking backpack. There are great day backpacks on this list that are great for just that – a day. While others can serve you well for hikes longer than a week.''Elements of a Good Hiking Backpack?''Main compartment:''You’ll want to make sure that the main compartment of your backpack is large enough to carry all of your belongings while still having easy access. Store the heavier things at the bottom of your bag so that the weight is closer to your back. Small compartments can be good for storing little extra items, or they can just get annoying if you don’t find that you need them.''Trekking pole/ice picking loops:''These are great little additions to any bag that can really optimize your comfort and free your hands if you use poles or ice picks on hikes.''Shoulder straps:''Along with the hip belt, your shoulder straps carry a lot of the weight of your pack. Thick and comfortable padding will keep your shoulders from hurting after a long days hike.''Hydration Ports:''We use a bladder when we hike, so a pack with a hydration port is absolutely essential to us. Most hiking and day backpacks have this now, however, if you don’t use a bladder then this shouldn’t be a factor in your purchasing decision.''Water bottle holders:''If you aren’t using the hydration ports or a bladder you will want at least one water bottle holder to hold your liquid.''Waterproof:''We look for bags that are waterproof or have a rain fly. Nothing is worse than wet gear. New products like Dyneema are fantastic for their waterproof and lightweight capabilities.''Hip Belt:''A good hip belt is essential for any trekking backpack. Putting the weight of your backpack and gear on your hips helps take the pressure off your back, so you will want a good, well-cushioned hip belt that is sturdy to help do that.''Cushioned back:''A well cushioned back panel can make the difference between having a backache or not.''The Best Hiking Backpack Brands''Osprey'': Osprey undoubtedly makes some of the best travel backpacks on the market. All of their products are backed by their''All Mighty Guarantee''and have no BPA or PVC.''Arc’Teryx'':''Arc’Teryx is a Canadian outdoor supply company founded in 1989. They use high-quality materials in all of their products and back them with the''Arc’teryx guarantee.''Teton'':''Teton Sports is run out of Utah and is another brand well-known for their outdoor gear.\xa0All of their products have a''limited lifetime warranty'', backed both by Teton Sports and the store where the product was purchased.''The North Face'':''North Face products have, for years, been tested against the harsh conditions of nature around the world. They feature the latest technology\xa0in all of their products, with many backpacks even standing the test of time. They also launched their''Responsible Down Standard'', a global nonprofit dedicated to sustainability in the apparel and textile industry.''Deuter'':''Deuter''is a German company that specializes\xa0specifically in backpacks and accessories. They make durable products that last and pride themselves their commitment to social responsibility.''Mountain Hardwear:''Mountain Hardwear prides themselves on the great performance of their products and has for the last 20 years. They make great products and backpacks all''backed by a limited warranty.''REI'': REI is where I get the majority of my outdoor gear. Everything in their store is backed by their''100% satisfaction guarantee.''Since 1998 they are have consistently been listed on Fortune’s “100 Best Companies to Work For,” and they give back millions each year to conservation.''Which Hiking Backpack?''Like with anything, choosing the best hiking backpack really depends on the intent. \xa0Are you going on a short hike or a multi-day hike? Would you like a backpack with many compartments and bells and whistles or is simpler better for you? Most importantly, is the backpack comfortable? Everyone is built-in different shapes and sizes and what’s comfortable for some may not be ideal for you.''I like to use my''REI Flash Pack''because it is light and fits on my womanly frame extremely well. Cameron takes hiking more seriously in the mountains. He loves his''Osprey Atmos''because it’s tough and built to last, carrying all the weight well, and he knows that Osprey comes with a lifetime guarantee on their products.''Read Next:''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World''Best Travel Water Bottle To Carry On Your Next Trip''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''Best Daypack For Travel Around The World''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The 7 Best Hiking Backpacks of 2018 • Updated and Reviewed''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''Autumn can be a magical time of the year across the world. It’s the time of harvest and it leads to amazing food that compliments the changing of the seasons. It’s undeniable that a hot cup of apple cider or mulled wine doesn’t comfort the soul on a cool fall day. When the leaves change and begin to die they put on an amazing show as they burst forth in vivid gold, scarlet, and orange.''It is my favorite time of year.''So, while others are hopeful for an endless summer at the beach, I yearn for relief from the scorching hot temperatures and humidity. Fall is the time to return to the great outdoors! Granted like many things there are some places that are better to celebrate the season than others. So, I decided to ask other travelers where their favorite place to spend fall is and what they would recommend to others.''Here are the top 15 best places to visit in October in the world.''Best Places to Visit in October in the World''Blue Mountains of NSW, Australia''Fall or Autumn in the Blue Mountains of NSW, Australia is one of the most spectacular times to visit this World Heritage-listed National Park. At just 100kms from Sydney, the Blue Mountains of NSW is a very popular destination with walkers, rock climbers and people wanting a romantic getaway. The Blue Mountains in Australia appear to be blue due to the eucalyptus oil from the trees creating this haze. During Fall the mountains go from this blue to crispy autumnal tones during the day.''–''Paula,''Contented Traveller''Wiltshire, England''Deep reds, glowing oranges, and bright golds – these are just some of the colors you can expect to see during the fall season. And where do I think is best to see these vibrant colors? That’s easy – Stourhead House and Gardens in Wiltshire, England; one of many''special National Trust places in the UK.''Surrounding a vast, glistening lake are hundreds of trees, just waiting to show a dazzling array of colors as soon as fall begins. But when walking around the lake, you’ll also be treated to sights of secret grottoes, neoclassical buildings, and mythological statues. What’s not to love about that?''– Justine, Wanderer of the World''Michigan, United States''If your idea of fall is pumpkin patches, apple cider, and beautiful hues of red and orange then head to Michigan. There is nothing quite like spending fall in the mitten state and there are plenty of beautiful sights to see in the lower and upper peninsula. September and October are the best months to see the leaves change and partake in the fall festivities. \xa0I would suggest taking a 10-day road trip to see all the''beautiful getaways the state has to offer before the winter season''creeps in. I grew up in Michigan, and I can honestly say it is one of the best places in the United States to celebrate the fall season.''–''Natasha, The World Pursuit''Martinborough, New Zealand''As someone who tends to follow summer, I found myself in Martinborough during fall (autumn) 2016 and it was awesome. Because the start of fall means it is harvest season in this boutique wine growing region of New Zealand. The summer had been really hot, so it was awesome harvesting the grapes in slightly cooler weather. In the evenings, there was always fun to be had in town as the harvest season brings lots of people into town for the picking, so many positive vibes. I had a few friends come visit me on their''New Zealand road trip''too which was great, as I knew they’d be blown away by visiting the Putangirua Pinnacles and Lake Ferry.''–''Jub, Tiki Touring Kiwi''Acadia National Park, Maine''There may be no more iconic place in the world to celebrate fall than in New England… and within New England, it’s hard to beat the beauty of Acadia National Park. Whether you’re driving along Park Loop Road, staring down from the top of Cadillac Mountain, or eating popovers on the lawn of Jordan Pond House, you’ll have unlimited opportunities of''things to do in Acadia National Park''to admire the brightly colored leaves that mark fall in this part of the world. While crowds will pick up during fall foliage on the weekends, if you’re able to swing a weekday visit, you’ll also have the benefit of having the park–and the town of Bar Harbor–almost to yourself. Be sure to bring a warm coat: this is Maine, after all, and temperatures will be dropping. You’ll definitely need the coat to watch the sunrise from Cadillac Mountain: during the fall, you’ll be among the first people in the USA to see the sun rise for the day if you’re watching from that spot.''–''Kate, Our Escape Clause''Prague, Czech Republic''Prague is one of the best European cities to visit in October and one of my favorite places to enjoy the\xa0Fall scenery. The city makes for a fantastic place to visit for photography and to get those colorful shots.\xa0Some of the best locations in the city are along the Vltava River, where you’ll find trees lining the banks. These in the peak of the season become a wonderful mix of yellows, reds, oranges, and greens.\xa0These colors combined with the many awesome spots along the river,''as well as great viewpoints,''such as Hanavský Pavilion provides the perfect opportunity for you to capture the city.\xa0The best time to visit Prague for Fall is mid to end of October when the colors will be at their best.”''–''Mike, Travel and Destinations''Seoraksan National Park, South Korea''Every fall, hundreds of thous''an National Park.''The park is already one of the most beautiful places in South Korea, but in the autumn, the changing leaves add another level of beauty to the mountains. Seoraksan National Park has a variety of hikes for every difficulty level, from short trails to multi-day backcountry hikes. Highlights of Seoraksan include Biseondae, Gwongeumseong Fortress, Heundeulbawi Rock, Gyejoam Grotto, Ulsanbawi Rock, and many waterfalls. Best of all, Seoraksan National Park is close enough to Seoul that it can be accessed as part of a day trip, making it a must-do for any visitor to South Korea in the fall.''–''Jonathan, Everybody Hates a Tourist''Rotorua, New Zealand''Rotorua in North New Zealand is a remarkable city with amazing contrasts. Known for its natural geothermal hot springs and steaming geysers, the city offers a fantastic combination of adventure, outdoor as well as cultural activities. Home to a volcano valley and craters filled with thermal water, Rotorua is surrounded by 16 lakes and lush redwoods forests. You can spend days hiking in the forests, cruising the lakes and exploring its idyllic landscape. Te Puia is one of the most visited attractions, where next to experiencing its spectacular geothermal landscape you can learn about the Maori culture through various cultural performances including a visit of the Maori Arts & Crafts Centre and the Kiwi Conservation Centre. A scenic flight of Rotorua is also a must to get an insight of Rotorua picturesque landscape from the air. On this post you can''learn more about all things to do in Rotorua''.''– Michela, Rocky Travel''Banff, Canada''One of my favorite places to celebrate fall is in''Banff National Park.''This part of Canada is gorgeous year round but during the fall the weather is great, the trees are changing colors, and there are way fewer tourists. One of my favorite things to do is get on a''Banff helicopter tour'', the view from a helicopter is out of this world. If you travel in September you have the chance to run into snow on the Icefields Parkway, which if you ask me makes the mountains magical with fresh snow.''–''Hannah, Getting Stamped''Stowe, Vermont''Looking for an amazing fall destination guaranteed to have gorgeous fall foliage? Stowe, Vermont is the ideal place to go. Set in a valley between some of''Vermont’s prettiest mountains'', Stowe is as quaint as it gets, with a white-steepled church, a charming general store, and an old-fashioned vibe. To make the most of fall, head out on some of the great area hikes (Sterling Pond & Stowe Pinnacle are among choice hikes, or climb Mt. Mansfield, Vermont’s tallest peak). End your day in front of a roaring fire, sipping on hot apple cider and recalling your adventures.''–''Amy, Two Drifters''Oregon, United States''“One of our favorite places in the world to celebrate fall is the state of Oregon in the USA. Oregon is a haven for nature lovers and has a wide variety of activities and regions to immerse yourself in. Although the abundant natural beauty makes it a great year round destination the dry, warm, fall season is often the most pleasant. At this time of year you can hike trails full of changing colors and flowing waterfalls, view the grape harvest in wine country, partake in Octoberfest in beer crazy Portland or walk along the near deserted spectacular''Oregon coastline''. Fall in Oregon is the perfect combination of fewer crowds and perfect weather.”''–''Sarah, Live Dream Discover''Nagano, Japan''An amazing place to celebrate fall is Japan.\xa0 In our case, we made the pilgrimage up the Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route which is located near Nagano, which is north west of Tokyo.\xa0 While we did not specifically plan our visit with the aim to see the fall leaves, we definitely enjoyed the show!\xa0 Being higher up in the mountains meant that we were able to see the first blush of the fall colors which would progressively make their way to the lowlands areas in Japan.''For future trips to Japan''I would definitely plan to align my trip with the fall colors and festivals in Japan!''–\xa0Anne, Pretraveller''The Pyrenees, Andorra''Looking for one of the best places to go on holiday in October? The Pyrenees are a great destination in fall, and not only because of the beautiful colors of the landscape, but it’s also less crowded than in summer. Many say the most beautiful part of this mountain chain is found in Andorra, a tiny country between Spain and France. This small country is really a hikers’ paradise and one of the nicest''hikes in Andorra''is the route around the Pessons Lakes. The scenery is really picturesque since you pass several beautiful lakes. It’s a circular track and when you climb up to Collado de Pessons (Pessons Mountain Pass) you will have a simply sensational panoramic view of all the lakes in the area.''–''Gábor, Surfing the Planet''Tel Aviv, Israel''Although Israel is labeled a hot desert country, fall in Tel Aviv is curating a different story. September, October and November, the extremely hot temperatures cool down which makes the Mediterranean city a different kind of “cool” concept and one of the best places to travel in November, when other places are too cold. The''nightlife in Tel Aviv''is one of my favorite\xa0things to explore because this department never stops no matter the season may be.''–''Trisha, P.S. I’m On My Way''Sardinia, Italy''Sardinia is one of the best places in the world to celebrate fall and to have a sun holiday in October. Typically, the weather is still warm enough until the end of October so that it is possible to enjoy time at one of the''best beaches in Sardinia''. However, fall is also when the festival season starts. Each weekend a different village hosts celebrations which are a fabulous combination of local food, traditional music and dances, and cultural events. As soon as the weather cools down a bit, it is possible to hike: Sardinia is packed with excellent hiking trails, so come prepared with a''good hiking backpack''if you want to get outside. Some trails are well hidden in the mountains and lead to beautiful gorges; others go along the coast and offer breathtaking views of the Mediterranean.''–''Claudia, My Adventures Across the World''We love staying in Airbnb’s when we travel. In fact, we love it so much we want you to experience it so we are giving $40 off your first stay!''Click here to get your discount!''Read Next:''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Driving Abroad for the First Time, From Europe to Developing Nations''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''April 24, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''April 19, 2018''20 Romantic Things to do in NYC for Couples''September 18, 2017''The 15 Best Places to Visit in October in the World''was last modified:''April 11th, 2018''by''Natasha''Living on the road means we pack and unpack our bags a lot. Packing can be a total drag, but\xa0we both invested in some of the best packing cubes for travel and now we would never travel without them. We were skeptical when we first bought something to organize our bags and hesitant to spend the money on good packing cubes. I want to share our favorite packing cubes from EBags, Eagle Creek,\xa0Shacke Pak, and more. Hopefully these make your packing, travels, and backpacking adventures easier like they have for us!''But First, What are the Best Travel Packing Cubes?''TravelWise Packing Cubes''eBags Packing System''Dot&Dot Packing Cubes''Shacke Pak''Eagle Creek Pack-It Specter Compression Cube Set''Why Should You Use Packing Cubes?''Organization'': This is clearly one of the main arguments for packing cubes. You can organize all of your clothes, toiletries, accessories and random items into neat tidy bags. You don’t have to worry as much about little things getting lost in your luggage with these luggage organizers because they’re always in the corresponding cube.''Compression:''Many packing cubes (or if you jam pack like me) do a good job at compressing your clothes. This frees up space in your suitcase allowing room for other things.''Efficiency:''When my bags are packed with packing cubes and I open my suitcase I can easily move the packing cubes – not all the clothes – from point A to point B. I don’t lose things like I used to. I can get in and out of my luggage with ease.''Protection:''Packing cubes really do a great job at protecting my clothes. I don’t have to wrap things in plastic bags in case there is a spill in my bag, and I don’t have to watch out for snagging my clothes on zippers anymore.''They’re Eco!:''I know you’re probably thinking that you can just put your clothes in plastic bags, but think about all that unnecessary plastic waste? At $20 a set it’s hard to justify using plastic bags over a packing cube. We all want to strive to be''more eco-friendly!''So, How Many Packing Cubes Do You Need?''The amount of packing cubes you’ll need depends on the size of your luggage. Are you''traveling carry-on only''or do you have a large duffle bag? Most packing cube sets come with four packing cubes in various sizes, which is great for a long trip. If you are only going on a weekend getaway I would say two packing cubes should do the job.''Here are the Best Packing Cubes for Travel''It’s 2017, there are tons of packing cubes on the market now. Selecting the best packing cubes for travel can be daunting, but these are some of our favorite packing cubes for travel.''TravelWise Packing Cubes''These travel cubes come in a variety of colors which is great for choosing what goes in where and distinguishing between all the bags. They come in large, medium, and small and are among some of the best packing cubes on Amazon. A basic set comes with one large, one medium, and one small. There is an\xa0option to get a five piece set as well. I personally only need three in my bag as it is not that big, but for those of you that love your clothes and have a bigger suitcase for packing cubes I would recommend the five piece. The''TravelWise packing cubes''are one of the best travel packing cubes because of how lightweight they are.''Get them now''TravelWise Packing Cube Pros:''Durable packs and lightweight that pack up well''Option Five Piece Starter Set (2 Large, 2 Medium, 1 Small)''Open mesh so easy to find items''TravelWise Packing Cube Cons:''Users note thinness of bags''Dot&Dot Packing Cubes''Cameron has the Dot&Dot system and they have held up nicely for the past two years. He keeps all sorts of things in them jeans, toiletries, and shoes. The''Dot&Dot Packing Cubes for Travel''hold everything together well and have held up to his destructive habits, for not being\xa0super sturdy that’s impressive. It could be that they are spacious and\xa0they aren’t under much strain. I have to note that these packing cubes are larger than any of the others we’ve had. It’s not a bad thing, but it’s not necessary either.''Get them now''Dot&Dot Packing Cube Pros:''More affordable option''Easy Mesh packing cube to see items without packing''Has handle''Dot&Dot Packing Cube Cons:''Less durable feel''Overly large pieces with set only giving one size''Eagle Creek Pack-It Specter Compression Cube Set''While Cameron thinks the Dot&Dot packing cubes are some of the best travel packing cubes I think differently with my''Eagle Creek set''. \xa0I scored the Eagle Creek Pack-It Compression set a few years ago on a mega sale at The Container Store. The Eagle Creek brand is great. They are slightly more expensive than most other packing cubes on the market, but that’s what you get for brand recognition. I like the compression set because it compresses, but to be honest it doesn’t save a ton of extra room in my luggage! I love stuffing my packing cubes full and then having the option to zip them even tighter. In my opinion, these are the very best packing cubes for backpacks like mine.''Get them now''Eagle Creek Pack-It Pros:''Eagle Creek Brand Backing''Durability''Zip up feature''Compressible\xa0to give you a''tad''bit extra space''Eagle Creek Pack-It Cons''Expensive''Smaller sets than most other packing cube sets. However, this makes them one of the best packing cube systems for carry-on only.''Hard to actually compress if the cube is too stuffed.''Check zipper that breaks''Eagle Creek has also put together a''Luggage Buying Guide''to help you learn more about your options when it comes to luggage, travel packs, carry ons, and duffel bags.''Shacke Pak''These packing cubes are nylon and water resistant. They are pretty durable and good for getting tossed around while traveling. The basic pack comes with four packing cubes which should be more than enough for any travel bag.''Shacke Pak''prides itself on the quality of its zippers, which seem like a small feature but can obviously make or break your packing cube experience.''Get them now''Shacke Pak Pros:''Quality Zippers''Lightweight''Lifetime warranty''Shacke Pak Cons:''Users note that the seaming is cheap''eBags Packing System''The eBags are very similar to the Dot&Dot System except the sizing isn’t so monstrous. We love all the fun colors that eBags has, and that makes it great for organizing for a family. \xa0The eBags are some of the most popular and''recognizable on Amazon.''They’re basic, but well known heavy duty products and some of the best packing cubes for backpacking.''Get them now''eBags Packing Cubes Pros:''Comes in Three Different Sizes''Lightweight and Durable''Open Mesh front and handle on each cube''eBags Packing Cubes Cons:''Many users comment on how small the bags are. Check the dimensions to make sure you’re okay with them.''Still Wondering How to use a Packing Cube?''Where to Buy Packing Cubes?''There are plenty of other packing cubes online. Many of them''I find are available for purchase for a great price on Amazon.''The ones listed above are some of the best backing cubes on the market. Ready to get packing?''Read Next:''The Essential Beach Packing List for any Vacation''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel 2018 • Eagle Creek, eBags, and More''was last modified:''April 19th, 2018''by''Natasha''In our first''post on toiletry bags''we stuck to the standard type of bag. It is a simple design with a few compartments to store your toiletries and cosmetics. The bag does rely on one important detail, counter space to lay out all your beauty products. However, if you are limited on counter space a great option is to buy a hanging toiletry bag. This style of bag tends to a have better organization system with a variety of sections for storage.''The hanging toiletry bag is a popular option with backpackers who frequent hostels, but it really is great for all types of travelers. Hanging toiletry organizers are an easy way to manage your style products. They’re a great option for the traveler on the on go and make organization a breeze. You can hang them in garment bags, a closet, shower rod, or towel rack and keep your cosmetics and beauty products efficiently organized. We love a great hanging toiletry bag!''Hanging toiletry organizers are an easy way to manage your style products. They’re a great option for the traveler on the go and make organization a breeze. You can hang them in garment bags, a closet, shower rod, or towel rack and keep your cosmetics and beauty products efficiently organized. We love a great hanging toiletry bag and have been traveling with them for years.''What Makes A Hanging Toiletry Bag Great?''Size:''This all comes down to personal preference and what kind of traveler you are. Neither of us requires many toiletries and cosmetics, but women are likely to want a slightly larger toiletry bag for their extra essentials. Where as men may prefer a simple bag with a collection of larger pockets for storing things like cologne, shaving cream, and razors. A good bag should have enough room for all of the basics. It’s also important that it fits in any''carry-on backpack''or''luggage''.''Material:''When dealing with airlines these days we like to save weight wherever we can. So opting for light weight materials is a great idea. A great toiletry bag should also be water resistant or at least quick drying, it’s going to be in a bathroom after all. We love internal pockets with mesh that allow for wet products to dry.\xa0It needs to behave just like''our favorite travel towels''.''Design:''Design is an important aspect in regards to hanging toiletry bags. Unlike the standard bag there is art to designing a bag that both hangs well and allows for easy access to all of your cosmetics and beauty products.''TSA Friendly:''Any bag that’s not going to take over your carry on sized backpack or luggage will do. However, we suggest you purchase''a clear quart bag''to store your liquids, that way it simplifies security.''Style:''Toiletry bags in general are a lot about personal preference. Bags can be utilitarian with synthetic materials and solid colors or they can be stylish and leather.''Extras:''Some bags come with all sorts of bells and whistles. We love features that aid organization like specialty designed compartments.''The Best Hanging Toiletry Bags''Vetelli Men’s Hanging Toiletry Bag''We named the''Vetelli dopp bag''in our best toiletry bags because of its design and they’ve managed to also make a great hanging bag. It’s the bag I personally carry, and I love it’s design. There isn’t a better toiletry bag for a stylish male traveler out there and they make for a great gift around the holidays or for a birthday. The bag is different than any other toiletry bag on the market as the majority of them are nylon. Constructed from leather, heavy fabric, and stainless steel zippers, I love this bag is tough. Many toiletry bags utilize smaller pockets that are made of nylon or rubber and can easily be damaged by my''safety razor''I like to use when shaving.''[ We reached out to Vetelli and they offered a 5% discount on Amazon to all The World Pursuit readers using this code:\xa0TWORLDP5 ]''[Click Here To Get Prices]''Vera Bradley Hanging Organizer''Vera Bradley has been making great looking bags for a long time now,''their hanging toiletry organizer''is no different. What we love about Vera Bradley’s toiletry organizer is how lightweight and stylish it is. The plush fabric has a great feel to it, but it doesn’t get weighed down like nylon, rubber, or leather. The bag is roomy and features a nice selection of different storage compartments. Several of the compartments are lined with plastic to fight against moisture and stains from makeup or toiletries. They come in a great selection of colors and they’re sure to have a design for anyone’s preference.''[Click Here To Get Prices]''eBags Pack-it-Flat Toiletry Kit''If you’re looking for a bag with a slick design then this is the one for you. eBags really appears to have stepped outside of the box and designed''an innovative toiletry tote''. There are a plethora of pockets that utilize nylon, mesh, and cloth to store anything you can think of. Items like bobby pins, contact cases, eye-liner, razors, toothbrush, and even a comb all have a home with this bag that effectively maximizes space. It’s not as stylish as the Vetelli or Vera Bradley, but if you’re looking for a utilitarian solution then this is a safe bet with a limited lifetime guarantee. It’s built with nice materials that make for a sporty bag working great for both men and women. Doesn’t matter if you’re a gym rat, business traveler, or backpacker you’ll be happy with this bag.''[Click Here To Get Prices]''Sea to Summit''This bag is for the easy going packers''out there. The super lightweight Sea to Summit toiletry bag is made out of a blend of nylon and polyester and it manages to save a lot of weight. I’d recommend this bag to hikers, backpackers, or anyone looking carrying a heavy load on their back. The simple design does not mean it lacks compartments for organization. It comes with enough space to even store full sized bottles of shampoo and conditioner.''[Click Here To Get Prices]''Osprey UltraLight Roll Organizer''We’re no stranger to Osprey products on our site and it’s because they make and design fantastic travel gear.\xa0Whether you’re outdoors for an afternoon or on a month long expedition to the far flung reaches of Nepal ensuring your kit is organized and protected is essential. That’s why we love the''Osprey Ultralight Roll Organizer''. It’s slightly bulky for ultra light hikers, but for the average traveler/hiker this organizer is perfect. Pick it up if you’re trekking Patagonia, Nepal, or the Camino De Santiago.''[Osprey Ultralight Roll Organizer]''These hanging bags are excellent for organizing your cosmetics and toiletries. Storing your soap, shampoo, toothbrush, and deodorant has never been easier with proper organization and the right bag. No more leaky toiletries in your luggage or lost razors!''Read More:''The Best Toiletry Bag For Your Next Trip''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''Eco Friendly Products to Take on Your Travels''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Guide to the Best Hanging Toiletry Bags on the Market''was last modified:''August 26th, 2017''by''Cameron''Choosing the best African safari can be difficult. There are so many countries to choose from, parks to explore, animals to see,''safari lodges'', and a variety of unique activities to partake in that it makes picking one place impossible almost.''If you’re just starting out in your safari planning I would recommend taking a look at our''how to plan a safari guide''to give you a basic idea of the planning involved with this trip.''When you’re ready to take the next step in choosing the best African safari vacation head back here for first-hand accounts of safaris in all these incredible parks.''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''What is the''best place to safari in Africa''for superb wildlife viewing?''If it’s your first time to Africa and your main objective is to see as many animals as you can then you can’t go wrong with the''Masai Mara''. It is here that you stand a pretty good chance of seeing the big five. Actually, this is the only place we have traveled to where we saw all the''big five animals''all on one game drive.''The advantage in the Masai Mara may be great wildlife sightings, however, the disadvantage is the crowds. Along with the Serengeti, the Masai Mara draws in huge masses of crowds for the great migration. Both parks are synonymous with “Africa” and living out that''Lion King dream''makes them extremely popular.''All of this demand drives the cost of the best safari operators up and brings in a lot of “low cost” operators that aren’t necessarily the best value when compared to elsewhere in Africa.''We also visited the Serengeti, which was great for wildlife, but this park loses to the Mara in our mind because it was jam packed busy and we found Mara’s landscape to be more open. Or maybe we’re just in love with''Out Of Africa''.''What is the best safari in Africa for a\xa0self-drive safari?''Asides from one trip to Morocco, South Africa was the first country we traveled to in Africa. Two days after we landed in Johannesburg we were driving around''Kruger National Park''with a rental car. Kruger National Park is an incredibly simple park to do on your own. The roads are paved, directions are well posted, and there are plenty of other guides and rangers around to help if you get lost or to point you to a sighting.''I didn’t realize how easy Kruger was to self-drive until we made our way north and witnessed just how terrible the roads in African national parks can be. The Kruger also has a few coffee shops inside it, souvenir shops, public toilets, and even a Debonair’s Pizza\xa0shop in it…yeah, we’re not in Africa anymore here.''The best about bits about Kruger are definitely the paved roads, consistent wildlife sightings, and the price of park fees. \xa0300 Rand for foreigners in a big five park that you can self-drive is a good deal, especially when compared to the costs of East Africa. The worst part about Kruger are the crowds and modernity making the Kruger seem a little bit more like a zoo than the wild.''What is the best African safari holiday for budget travelers?''People usually gasp when I tell the price it cost us to get into''Namibia’s Etosha National Park'', and I’m sure you will too. Are you ready? It costs''80 Namibian Dollars''a day to drive around Etosha National Park. That’s equivalent to $6 USD or less than two cappuccinos from Starbucks. Yes, for the price of your favorite McDonalds meal you can get into Namibia’s most popular park and hang out all day!''That’s why if you are traveling Africa on a budget and still want to go see rhino, elephants, jackal, and giraffe then I would suggest you head to Namibia. However, don’t be fooled that just because the price is so low the park is crap, because you would be sorely mistaken. Etosha National Park boasts incredible game viewing especially in the dry season when all the animals congregate at the natural and man-made watering holes.''The best part about Etosha is hands down the price and quality of roads, while we did find it be a barren arid park the quality of the game is pretty top notch.''What is the best African safari trip for gorilla trekking?''If you’re in East Africa I would highly recommend sticking around a bit longer to see the last remaining mountain gorillas in the world. The 800 mountain gorillas can only be found in Uganda, Rwanda, and the DRC but I believe the best place to have an interaction with them is in Bwindi Impenetrable\xa0National Park. This is where we went and trekked for only two hours to spend an hour with a family of 17 mountain gorillas, cute babies included!''Uganda holds 60% of the total mountain gorillas left in the world with about 400 of them residing in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park. So, if I’m doing my math correctly about half of the last remaining gorillas are in Bwindi! Add that to the fact that it costs $600 to go''gorilla trekking in Uganda''and $1500 to go gorilla trekking in neighboring Rwanda makes me lean more towards The Pearl of Africa. Of course, one can always go to the DRC for $400, but with that comes the dangers of an unstable country.''The best part of gorilla trekking is seeing gorillas up close and personal! The worst part about gorilla trekking anywhere in Africa is the''high price tag''for just one hour of gorilla time.''What is the best place to safari in Africa for bush walking?''Being able to walk in a wildlife area allows you to connect with the bush in a more intimate nature, it is as close to our roots as we can get on safari. A walking safari is by all means adventurous. Walking through the bush in search of deadly animals heightens your senses. It allows you to step away from the engine noise and stretch your legs.''On a bush walk you are given the chance to witness the small details. Little things that often get missed on a traditional safari, such as, indigenous plants, methods of tracking, and even snakes. We found the best park for walking safaris to be''South Luangwa National Park''in Zambia. Not to mention it was in South Luangwa that we got incredibly close to elephants, one of the most deadly animals. Bush walks are the only activity where you''need to wear safari clothes''and the''safari boots''.''The best part about South Luangwa was the game density (Leopards galore!), and walking safaris. We found the only disadvantage of South Luangwa to be the crowds, which still were nowhere near as bad as they are in the more well-known parks.''Where is Africa’s best park for a wide range of activities?''In Zambia’s''Lower Zambezi National Park''one can partake in walking safaris, canoe safaris, night game drives, regular game drives, fishing, and river cruises. With this huge range of safari activities, it’s hard to ever get bored! That’s why if you’re looking for a wide range of activities on your African safari or are traveling with a family with many interests the Lower Zambezi is a great safari choice. It’s likely in competition for our favorite park in Africa as it’s landscape is stunning place right in between the mighty Zambezi and a towering escarpment.''The game in the park is superb! It is here that we saw wild dogs, a lion kill, and the elusive leopard. Be on the lookout too! When our guide was on his way to pick us up from the airstrip he’d seen the first Cheetah in nearly a decade so it’s likely they may return, or at least one! We can’t recommend this park for its activities, natural beauty, low crowds, and game density enough.''What is the best safari in Africa for some romance?''The Selous Game Reserve in Tanzania is the largest game reserve in Africa, meaning that there is a lot of space to cover. Our entire time there we never saw a single other vehicle making the Selous one of the most intimate wildlife area in Africa. It’s the perfect place to go to escape from the crowds of the Serengeti and the''Ngorongoro Crater''and just enjoy Africa like it used to be – undisturbed.''Most lodges will be situated on the Rufiji River which is a beautiful location to relax. Every night you can listen to grunting hippos as you fall asleep. A popular activity is to partake in boat cruises along the river but the Selous also allows walking safaris as well, and is well known for big game hunting the old school way in the South of the park. The park used to be teeming with elephants and in the 70’s the park had over 100,000 elephants – the largest population in Africa. Now less than 15,000 are in the reserve due to poaching. Sadly, this became a reality for us when our entire four days in the Selous only led us to see one elephant.''I loved the Selous Game Reserve for its seclusion and beauty, but unfortunately, I can not recommend it if your goal is to see elephants. Giraffes on other hand are as plentiful as the trees they eat!''Where is Africa’s best park for exclusivity?''In terms of privacy, exclusivity, and almost downright celebrity status safaris then Botswana’s Okavango Delta is the place to safari. You have probably seen the remarkable Okavango Delta before on Planet Earth or Nat Geo with Sir David Attenborough’s voiceover to soothe you away.''The truth is, the Okavango Delta really is just''that''incredible. The Delta is beautiful and you are almost guaranteed amazing sightings.''Botswana is a superb African country''with great efforts to protect their countries assets. The country has enforced a high-cost low impact model of tourism. Meaning that unless you are very wealthy, a safari here will be hard to afford.''That’s not to say that it can’t be done on a budget though! It’s very possible to self-drive into Moremi and takes in the Delta from the comforts of a traditional mokoro ride while camping on the banks. However, there are a limited number of campsite available and they’re extremely popular with the best sites being booked up a year in advanced by South Africans on holiday.''I loved the Okavango Delta for the beauty, the fame, the wildlife, and the exclusivity. However, the high price tag is an understandable deterrent.''Where is the best place to safari in Africa for minimal crowds?''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools''is a fantastic national park you can enjoy all to yourself! Mana means “four” in Shona and it refers to the four permanent pools fed by the Zambezi River found in the park. During the rainy season, the whole area gets its fair share of water and when the dry season hits the animals flock to the pools for a drink.''We visited in the shoulder season when the game was just starting to come back and we were in awe by the number of elephants, leopard, and buffalo we saw in the park. Furthermore, elephants are frequent camp visitors as they congregate along the river. It was here we had our closest encounters with elephants, including one elephant who visited our breakfast buffet in search of some tasty food.''Mana Pools is a great park to combine with Zambia’s Lower Zambezi. The parks are divided by the mighty Zambezi River, and even though they are so close in distance they offer completely different safari experiences.''A few other of Africa’s best parks not mentioned on this list are:''Hwange National Park''Kafue National Park''Ruaha National Park''Gondwana Game Reserve''Chobe National Park''In the end, almost any safari in Africa is bound to be enjoyable. Especially if it’s your first safari! We personally have spent over 100 days on safari, and I can say they still never get old!''Want to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''A Quick Guide to Tanzania’s Selous Game Reserve''All You Need to Know About the Masai Mara National Reserve''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''Our journey across Africa: A true African safari''December 18, 2017''10 Safari Bags to Consider for Your Trip to Africa''August 31, 2017''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''was last modified:''April 8th, 2018''by''Natasha''Most Americans and foreigners alike don’t think of Michigan when they are planning a vacation. Images of abandoned houses and factories in Detroit, water crises, and country farms come to mind. However, the mitten state has much more to offer than that.''I was born in Michigan'', so the state holds a special place in my heart. The beautiful winters, clear beaches, and cute historic small towns scattered throughout the state are what I think about Michigan. It makes for the perfect place to spend a romantic weekend with your loved one. Just recently, we were even able to take some time off and explore more of my own home state.''Where exactly did we go in Michigan? Here are all the beautiful places we were able to re-explore again. This is our list of the 10 best romantic getaways in Michigan.''10 Romantic Getaways in Michigan''Sleeping Bear Dunes''ABC’s Good Morning America voted Sleeping Bears Dunes in Northern Michigan the “Most Beautiful Place in America.” It’s not an exaggeration. The\xa0Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore Park covers over 35 miles of pristine coastline. Sleeping Bear is perfect for a cheap weekend getaway in Michigan for couples to enjoy a few days of pure bliss and relaxation among some of the bluest waters in Michigan. Sleeping Bears Dunes are beautiful in both the summer and the winter, but for swimming and camping around Lake Michigan, the months of June, July, and August are perfect. The Dunes are named after the great Ojibwe legend which you can read''fully about here.''Frankfort''If you’re looking for a romantic getaway in Michigan that is only a three-hour drive away from the capital city look no further than Frankfort. This cute little town is in Benzie County and is situated right along Lake Michigan. White sand dunes, crystal clear water, and awe inspiring sunsets surround the quaint Victorian homes and cute coffee shops in this small little town. One of my favorite things to do here is to head up to Betsie Point Lighthouse at the southern entrance to the Manitou Passage.\xa0Frankfort is so romantic, one of my best friends even got married here!''This is the view from the Harbour Lights Motel!''Check Prices Here!''Frankenmuth''If I could describe Frankenmuth in two words it would be “Little Bavaria.” Frankenmuth is a great destination in Michigan year round, but in my opinion, it’s a great winter weekend getaway in Michigan. Through the winter months, the whole town turns into a giant German like Christmas market. People are happy, kids are ice skating, the shops are full, and the streets are lined with Christmas\xa0lights. Throughout the town you can feel the holiday spirit in the air. The downtown area is modeled after a 19th-century Germany village and in\xa0mid-September, the whole community\xa0gathers for Oktoberfest, much like they do in Munich. One of my favorite things to do in Frankenmuth is''head to Bronner’s'', the largest Christmas store in the world, \xa0around Christmas time.''Make sure to check out the Bavarian Inn Lodge!''Check Prices Here!''Traverse City''If you want to shop till you drop then Traverse City right on the\xa0Grand Traverse Bay Area\xa0of\xa0Northern Michigan is the place for you.\xa0The streets of Traverse City are lined with unique shops and delicious places to eat. What the town is most known for are their Michigan cherries. Dubbed the “Cherry Capital of the World” almost 3/4 of America’s cherries are grown in Michigan. I’m not talking about the sweet maraschino cherries either, I’m referring to the delicious juicy ruby red cherries that you can only find in certain parts of the world. Two of my favorite things to do in Traverse City is celebrating the''National Cherry Festival''each June and attending the Traverse City Film Festival that takes place every summer.''Make sure you visit the''Cherry Tree Inn!''Check Prices Here!''Mackinac Island''In case you didn’t know, there are two peninsulas that make up Michigan. That is the Lower Peninsula and the Upper Peninsula connected by the Mackinac Bridge and separated by Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. Between these two peninsulas is Mackinac Island, renowned for its colonial and Victorian era ambiance. This is one of the most popular destinations in Michigan and for good reason.''After coming here and seeing the horse and buggies, fudge shops, and cobbled streets you yourself will be enchanted. There is plenty of history to learn here as well as great shopping (especially for fudge), and there is also the posh and ritzy resort areas where couples can treat themselves to fabulous dinners at the''Carriage House.''Horse riding, hiking, and paddling also present themselves for the more active bunch. The best part is there is an automobile ban on the island so get used to clean air, horses, and plenty of bicycles to enjoy a romantic weekend.''The Inn at Stonecliffe\xa0in one of the most beautiful places to stay here!''Check Prices Here!''Petoskey''Visiting Northern Michigan''Petoskey is located on Little Traverse Bay and is one of the most affluent areas of the state I have traveled through. Shop lined streets, yacht-filled harbors, and great eateries await you here. Petoskey is named after the Petoskey Stone that is the prehistoric fossil found in the area. Besides finding the Petoskey Stone, visitors to the area can find themselves on one of the many bike and hiking trails through the Petoskey State Park or golf\xa0on one of the beautiful golf courses near Bay Harbor along the water. If you are looking for a more fishing oriented romantic getaway in Michigan then check out\xa0Petoskey’s Bear River\xa0which plays host to brook trout, salmon, and steelhead.''Make sure to enjoy the Inn at Bay Harbour here!''Check Prices Here!''Saugatuck''As a little girl, I would always find myself in West Michigan visiting Saugatuck during the summer. Only a 45 minute drive away from Grand Rapids, Saugatuck offers visitors a more laid back art scene on the shores of Lake Michigan. It’s a great Michigan family getaway town perfect for walking around and enjoy the unique shops, romantic restaurants, and art galleries that are so hard to come by in the midwest. It also has one of the most open LGBT communities in the state and is considered fairly progressive. Oval Beach is a beautiful and serene beach that is easily the most popular to visit in the summertime with its white sand and clear water.''Have a romantic weekend here at the\xa0Hidden Garden Cottages & Suites''Check Prices Here!''Leland''Leland is a teenie village in Leelanau Country and is a great place for a day trip while in Northern Michigan. The quaint town is easy enough to walk around and enjoy a fun day of kayaking, swimming, or just watching the beautiful yachts pull into port. There are plenty of cute places to eat and shop in Leland. Fishtown is a small 150-year-old fishing village that is also a great place to visit and have lunch at here. The fully operational Fishtown is one of the only fishing villages left in Michigan. While walking through here you can easily see, feel, and smell the fish smokehouses, drying fish racks, and fishing shanties while trying some of the one of a kind smoked fish.''For a secluded romantic cabin in Michigan\xa0(''like this one'') try Airbnb''Click here for a Airbnb Coupon''Ludington''Ludington is one of the best romantic getaways in Michigan year-round. There are great hiking trails in Ludington State Park to go cross-country skiing on a romantic winter getaway in Michigan and of course, there are dunes to climb in the summer at the Nordhouse Dunes Wilderness Forest. Like many of the towns on this list, Ludington has fabulous beaches along Lake Michigan accompanied with''two''famous Ludington lighthouses. However, it’s not the beaches or the antique shops downtown that make Ludington so wonderful – it’s the massive list of festivals they host! From the''Ludington Freedom Festival''to their Winterfest it’s hard to get bored in Ludington anytime of the year.''Holland''If Frankenmuth is the nations “Little Bavaria,” then Holland, Michigan is the nations “Little Amsterdam.” Yup, in case you have never been to Western and Central Europe don’t worry because Michigan has you covered!\xa0Holland was founded by\xa0Dutch Americans, hence the name.\xa0Holland is located on\xa0Lake Macatawa, and there are many public beach accesses if you are looking for some romantic beach time. There is also a fabulous shopping district mostly on the iconic 8th street. It’s here that you can find locally owned businesses, coffee shops, Irish Pubs, and even the New Holland Brewing Company. Despite all these amazing things, the''Tulip Time Festival is what Holland, Michigan is famous for.''Each May, Holland plays host to over six million tulips around the city.''There are tons of cute AirBnB’s in Holland to choose from!''Click here for a Airbnb Coupon''Read Next:''10 Romantic Getaway Ideas in Asheville, North Carolina''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''April 17, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''April 12, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''March 5, 2018''10 Ideas for a Romantic Weekend Getaways in Michigan (from a Local)''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''We have never been on a “honeymoon.” However, we have had our fair share of''romantic experiences in many countries abroad''. It shouldn’t be any surprise that we are often asked for travel advice from those planning honeymoons. We get emails all the time like, “''Hey'',''I am planning my honeymoon and was wondering what the most romantic place you’ve two have traveled to. I would love to hear your advice!''”''Given our experience, I guess we can’t blame them. As a couple, we’ve traveled to over 60 countries and counting. With all that time spent internationally, we’ve managed to form a pretty good list of the best honeymoon destinations. They range from mountainous adventures, city escapes, gorgeous beaches and even safaris. That way there is something on this list for any type of honeymoon.''Best Honeymoon Destinations''The Seychelles''If we had to pick one destination in the world to go on a honeymoon, the Seychelles would are the destination we’d pick. The group of 115 islands that make\xa0of the Seychelles Archipagelo is almost too beautiful to be real. It is this group of islands in the middle of the Indian Ocean that you can enjoy a luxurious honeymoon in the middle of the lush green jungle among crystal warm water and sparkling granite. The islands are formed from granite and their rocky shores can be found nowhere else on earth.''Read more''about our time in the Seychelles!''Scotland''Many honeymooners flock to the Caribbean for their special trip, but there is something special waiting for''you in Scotland.''The country offers absolutely fantastic and breathtaking scenery, world-class cuisine, and plenty of things to do. A few great things to do to that are a bit different from your typical honeymoon is''road trip along the NC500'', rent out an entire castle, hike in a tranquil forest and glamp in a yurt, or indulge in some of the finest seafood in the world.''Italy''Italy is one of my favorite\xa0countries of all time to travel.''Cameron and I have traveled there together on a romantic trip, we have also traveled with family before, and I even tackled the country on my own when I was 23 as a solo backpacker. There is really nothing not to love about the beautiful country. A stunning Mediterranean coastline, rolling hills with vineyards, world class cuisine, and''€1.30''cappuccinos? What’s not to love! Some of the most romantic places in the country to honeymoon are Perugia, Florence, the Cinque Terre, and the Amalfi Coast.''After you book your Italian honeymoon''make sure to check out''our things to know about Italy.''South Africa''We spent three months traveling around South Africa. Heck,''we even bought a car there''! The country is vast and extremely varied from region to region. It’s typical on holiday to spend a few magical night in a luxury safari lodge only to be dining in one best wine regions in the world the next day. Follow that up with a city escape in the''iconic Cape Town''and road trip down the amazing Garden Route. There is just so much to explore in the country. We also love lesser known destinations like the Drakensberg, Kalahari, and Sunshine coast. To make matter better''traveling in South Africa''makes for an affordable African honeymoon as prices are some of the lowest in Africa.''One of our favorite African lodges in the world''Namibia''If you want to wake up among the worlds tallest and oldest sand dunes then a''honeymoon in Namibia''will make you and your lover very happy. Namibia is a country that many know nothing about, even my parents haven’t even heard of it! However, when we traveled there we were blown away by the beauty of the country. It almost didn’t even feel real! It’s a great place to honeymoon and enjoy some romantic solitude in the desert. What makes a honeymoon in the desert is the solitude. Standing alone in the middle of a sea of red sand is humbling and almost deafening!''Read more''about Namibia here!''New Zealand''For a honeymoon filled with world-class adventure activities and jaw-dropping scenery then head to South Pacific Ocean. New Zealand\xa0is well known for their vast mountains, rolling pasture land, adventure activities, breathtaking fiords, plus a few active volcanic zones. The country is divided into two islands – North and South. South Island is great for adrenaline pumping hikes, glacier climbing, and bungee jumping. While North Island, on the other hand, showcases\xa0active\xa0volcanoes, geysers, and hot springs. If you’re more into eating and drinking head to\xa0Marlborough for some of the worlds best Savinougn Blanc.''Book a tour in New Zealand!''Croatia''Croatia is a big draw for many honeymooners and even backpackers. It’s easy to see why! The country packs a whole lot of history, beautiful beaches, surreal sunsets, and outdoor activities in for a fraction of the cost of other destinations in Western Europe. \xa0We’ve done a few Croatian road trips, and can definitely recommend Istria for great food, wine, and scenery while towns like Split,''Hvar'', and Dubrovnik in Southern Croatia\xa0are great for a beach getaway. Just be warned in the high season tourists are flocking to Croatia in mass.''Check out''how we spent six weeks in Croatia!''Turkey''Turkey may not be what you normally think of when you plan a honeymoon; however, the country is wonderful to travel through and the Turkish people are among some of the most hospitable. Two highlights for honeymoons are Cappadocia and Bodrum. Cappadocia is a fairytale town well known for their Chimney house rock formations. Take a sunrise hot air balloon ride and feel like you’re floating through an Alien world. Bodrum is a beautiful seaside town perfect for yachting, ancient history and ruins, and a great nightlife.''We went to Cappadocia on a budget''–''here’s how!''Book a Hot Air Balloon Ride!''Bali''It’s no secret that Bali has been a honeymoon destination for decades. With the rise of social media just about everyone has seen videos and photos of the gorgeous island. The tiny Indonesian island is welcoming to foreigners and offers''so much to tourists''it’s hard to say no to a honeymoon here. The island is incredibly beautiful with lush green forests, clean beaches, rich cultural. It’s easy to escape to find your zen in places like Ubud, while still enjoying the coastal vibes and party atmosphere that many go to Southeast Asia in search of fun. One of the best parts? Bali is still considered a cheap destination by Western standards to travel through so it’s a great budget honeymoon destination!''Read more''about the best hotels in Bali!''Kenya''Who hasn’t dreamed of seeing a pride of lions in the Masai Mara, or having an elephant graze right outside their tent at night. Kenya is the ultimate destination for a romantic''African safari''just like the olden days. There is even a unique Kenyan camp designed specifically for guests to feel as if they are in 1920’s Africa! Oh don’t forget to travel in style we love''having our safari gear''so we can look like Robert Redford and Meryl Streep in Out of Africa.''Here’s how''to go on safari in the Masai Mara!''Norway''Many people head to the beach for their honeymoon, but I think a winter holiday sounds just as dreamy. Norway is so beautiful it’s really hard to compare its beauty to anything else. It has that unique Scandinavian beauty that is a mix of rustic, wild, and charm.''Norway''(''Norge'') is the westernmost, northernmost, and easternmost country in Scandinavia. The further north you go the closer to the Arctic Ocean you are and in my opinion the more amazing. A honeymoon holiday here is perfect for those who have spent just a little too much time at the beach (perhaps you live on the coast) and want to see a different part of the world.\xa0Tromsø is actually rated one of the top places to see the aurora in the world. Head there after September for that experience!''Heading to Scandinavia''?''Read our Europe Packing List post first!''Costa Rica''Are you an adventurous couple traveling from the US? Costa Rica is the perfect honeymoon destination for you! With cheap and short flights to the country, it’s no wonder Costa Rica is a tourist hotspot. The central American country is rich in flora and fauna so things like hiking, biking, diving, rafting, and surfing are very popular to do while on honeymoon.''Check out''this Central America packing list before you go''Galapagos Island''The Galapagos are a small group of islands off the''coast of Ecuador''and are well known for their impressive diversity of wildlife. \xa0Sea lions, giant tortoises, and even penguins await you in the Galapagos making these little islands perfect for a couple that loves to explore and has a passion for animals. The only way to get there is by cruise or plane from mainland Ecuador so be sure to book in advance as the islands are only suitable for a few tourists at a time.''Tahiti''Tahiti is the largest of the French Polynesian islands and is surrounded by volcanic mountain ranges and black beaches. It’s always been a great place to honeymoon especially for those with large budgets. This is where you see photos of the luxurious overwater bungalows and crystal clear water. Tahiti is a great place to relax but many people also travel here to go surfing, scuba diving, snorkeling, and deep-sea fishing.''Hawaii''I hate to be cliche and add Hawaii to this list, as it is one of the most visited spots to visit in the US. However, it’s hard not to include it on this list of best honeymoon destinations. The state really is just''that''stunning to see in real life. Maui is probably the most visited island, however,\xa0Oʻahu,\xa0Kauaʻi, and\xa0Lānaʻi also offer\xa0incredible beaches and scenery. Of all the islands we’ve been to the only ones that compete with Hawaii for beauty are the Seychelles.''Plan Your Honeymoon''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation Abroad''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''or to feel more at home on your honeymoon try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We try to drink tap water whenever possible, however when we want extra assurance we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''You’ll most likely need a travel adaptor abroad.\xa0Many adapters are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged.''Don’t forget a camera!''We travel with a''Canon 80D''and love it!''Read Next:''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''Why Not Head to Africa for the Perfect Honeymoon Escape?''10 Romantic Getaways in Michigan To Escape Everyday Life''10 Romantic Getaway Ideas in Asheville, North Carolina''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''was last modified:''February 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''The old idea that travel is an expensive hobby for the rich and famous is an outdated notion. Many people ask us how we have been able to afford to travel to more than 60 countries in our twenties. This is where saving becomes a crucial step to traveling and financial success. Saving money is not a difficult task if you know where to start. It’s why we were able to''save our dollars in one of the most expensive cities in the world''and continue to today.''If you set a goal and put your mind to it anything is possible. Start small and eventually you’ll be saving a portion of your income every month. From there it’s only a matter of time before you have enough for that great trip you’ve always dreamed about. Remember it all starts with the first dollar! Here are the basic ways we save money for travel and stay on the road longer for cheaper.''Save Money For Travel''Table of Contents:''Section 1'':''How to Start Saving Money For Travel''Reduce General Expenses''Start Eating In''Cut Out the Bar''No Cable!''Get Active''Travel Rewards Credit Cards''Diversify Income''Sharing Economy''No Smoking''Section 2'':''How to save when travel planning''Travel in the Offseason''Travel Slow''Choose Cheap Destinations''Get a Travel Buddy''Keep Flexible Plans''Pack & Come Prepared''Section 3:''How to Save While Traveling''Stay Cheap''Walk''Stay on Budget''Work While You Travel''Know The Rules''Manage Finances''Eat In & Do Your Research''Join Free Walking Tours''Travel Insurance''Stay Connected''Chapter 1:''How to Start Saving Money for Travel''Reduce Your General Expenses''I know that your legs probably look killer in that new dress ladies. And perhaps that new fancy shave gel really does make your beard look better guys…however, do you really need everything you’re buying? Chances are probably not. One of the main ways to cut expenses is to cut out all the crap that you really don’t need to have a fulfilling life. How much can you cut out to just live comfortably? Just because you make and have the money does not mean you should spend it right away on every payday. You don’t need a new TV. You don’t need a dozen pairs of shoes. This is the very first step in saving for travel – live below your means.''Love To Cook''One of the easiest ways to save money for travel is to start cooking all your meals. That means breakfast, packed lunch, and dinner. No picking up a coffee and bagel on your way to work, because that cost can quickly snowball. Restaurants are always more expensive than a home-cooked meal. In the United States a low-cost meal out with friends runs me at least $15-$20, and then, of course, we tip in America so there is another $4-5 on top of that. The easy solution to this is to go to the grocery store, grab a cookbook, and whip up your own dishes. Not only will it help save your paycheck, but it is much healthier.''And if you absolutely must eat out make your decisions wisely. When we began saving for travel we went out once a week, to our favorite sushi spot. The meal wasn’t cheap at almost $100, but we were afforded the luxury because we cut out the bad takeout, chain restaurants, and delivery that can add up to a lot more in a week.''Cut Out the Bar''I bet you knew where this was going. First I take away clothes, then food, and now alcohol! Yep – it’s not rocket science, alcohol and bars can be very costly. Why not host your friends over for wine night? Or invite everyone to your house with beer to watch the game instead of going to the sports bar? These choices are easy ones to make and can easily set you on your way to financial freedom.''Ditch Cable''Now that Netflix and the internet are available in almost every country in the world there is really no excuse to have cable TV. If you love staying entertained with TV shows and movies why not invest in a cheap streaming service and ditch the expensive cable premiums? We love Netflix and HBO!''Get Active Outside''I remember when we lived in NYC''and gym memberships were through the roof! $150 a month to work out? Not everyone can afford that. There are plenty of ways to stay active without signing your life away to a gym. Perhaps biking to work? Maybe learn how to play basketball, volleyball, or baseball? Or just go for a run in a nice park nearby. When I was in college I would save money for travel by utilizing\xa0my school’s free gym. When that is not available I watch YouTube workout videos in my living room or the park. There are all kinds of ways to stay active outside that is totally free. This is the one expense we give some wiggle room to, staying in shape and keeping a hobby is a crucial element to a happy & healthy life. Just keep costs in moderation!''Take Advantage of Travel Credit Cards''Anytime there is a new credit card offer with great travel incentives, I sign up. I’ve spent 11 years now building up my credit so that this is possible, but there are even great cards offered for those with no credit at all. My favorite general cards are the''Capital One Venture''and''Barclays Arrival Plus World Elite''. If you’re new to the credit card game check out the''Chase Freedom''!''Check out more of my favorites here!''Make sure to be responsible with any new credit card. Pay your bill on time, pay in full, and don’t spend what you don’t have. Here are some more tips for''travel banking.''Diversify Income''When I was in college I scoured the internet for a job that would let me work only on weekends. I scored working as a waitress every Friday, Saturday, and Sunday and brought in great tips. Years later,''when Cam and I moved to NYC''he worked weekends for overtime pay and I took on a second job. It wasn’t ideal, but we definitely knew that we had the time and energy to take on extra work. It doesn’t have to be your standard job either. Cameron’s parent’s favorite hobby is flipping furniture they buy at flea markets and rehabbing it for a profit. Whether it be online work, bartending, blogging, or dog walking a second job will bring in extra income and most likely bring in new friends too!''Sharing Economy''Each and every year the sharing economy gets bigger and bigger. Sharing rides, apartments, and even dog sitting are now costs you can share with others. Not only is it easier, but many times sharing can save money. Try looking at sites like''Airbnb,''BlaBlaCar,''Uber,''and even''Fon''can help save the bank.''No Smoking''I hope that you are not a smoker, but in case you are one of my main tips for saving money is to''cut it out.''Smoking is not only harmful to you, but to others around. Okay, but I am not your mother and you can do what you want. But I am 100% certain that not smoking will help you save money for travel. Just think about putting in an extra $10/week or day to your travel fund can do? That’s''$520''or''$3650''a year or in better words a plane ticket to Europe, Thailand,''Ecuador,''or maybe even a''vacation in South Africa.''Chapter 2: How to Save When Travel Planning''Plan to Travel in the Offseason''Traveling during off-peak times can severely reduce your travel expenses. We’ve sometimes stayed in beautiful hotel rooms that are 70-80% their normal price, simply because it is the shoulder period! Off course, each location’s offseason changes, but in general traveling during spring or fall is a great time.''During the summer many people are with their families on summer vacation, while in the winter many people travel for the holiday season. I personally love traveling during the off season as there are fewer crowds and generally the locals are friendlier. You can read more about''traveling during the shoulder season here!''Travel Slow To Save Money''Transport costs are by far the most expensive part of traveling. It’s part of the reason we stay in certain regions for longer and generally try to get long-term apartment rentals. Not only do you get worn out by sitting on a train, plane, or car every other day, but this it is a sure way to eat up your travel funds.''Tip:''Many Airbnb hosts will offer discounts if you message them directly and tell them you are staying long-term. We have done this in both Belgrade, Namibia, and Cape Town and it worked out great! As a gift to you, here is''$40 off your first stay!''Travel to Cheap Destinations''The United States, Australia,''East Africa'', and Western Europe are all wonderful, but they are also expensive travel destinations. Traveling to cheaper regions of the world will definitely help you travel longer. Of course, we all know that traveling around India, Thailand, Vietnam, and the Philippines is affordable by western standards. Some of the other lesser known cheap spots are the''Balkans and Eastern Europe,''South Africa, Nicaragua, Uraguay, and Mexico.''Get a Travel Buddy''I would recommend picking up a travel buddy to cut costs while traveling if you can. Two people will come in handy if you are sharing accommodation, splitting a rental car and or cooking meals together. If you can’t find a partner to travel with you this time – that’s okay – staying in hostels is a cheap way to sleep and are a fun environment for meeting other travelers. Or, if you are comfortable you can try''Couchsurfing.''Couchsurfing is a website connecting travelers and locals offering up a free couch for travelers to crash on. While I think it’s a great way to meet people and stay somewhere for free it’s important to always check reviews and use common sense with strangers.''Tip'': There are active Facebook groups with people always looking for travel buddies. Another good app to download is''Meetup'', which is great for finding people in cities to do things with.''Keep Flexible Plans''Flexibility is key to traveling on a budget. A flexible schedule will help you score cheap plane tickets and let you stay in one place for long. A flexible attitude may also lead you to cheaper countries you may not have otherwise thought to go, which is what travel is all about.''We set open dates and unknown destinations''with Skyscanner,''and see where we can score a low-cost flight. Once we land in a new country we travel overland by bus, car, or train to save on cost. Many times we travel for months and months on end so that we don’t have to pay for the flight to go back and forth to North America.''We know that this isn’t viable for everyone, but it is certainly a good starting point to get the most bang for your money. If all you know is that you want to travel to a certain area of the world, research different flight routes and dates to get the best deal. Some of our favorite flight booking websites are''Secret Flying'',''Skyscanner,''and''Momondo.''Pack & Come Prepared''This is mainly for my American readers out there. If there is one thing we have noticed after traveling to over 60 countries it is the U.S. has the lowest prices on consumer goods I’ve ever seen. Pack your camera, laptop, suitcase, and yes even clothing and makeup before you fly abroad because I can almost guarantee you it will be more expensive outside of the US (especially those electronics and makeup, ladies). We’ve bought a drone in Greece,''a camera in South Africa'', and a''DSLR camera in Kenya''and paid dearly for those items.''Chapter 3: How to Save Money While Traveling''Stay cheap''It has probably taken a few lifestyle changes to save up some money for travel so why change that when you travel.''Walk!''One of our favorite things to do when we arrive at a new destination is to walk around and explore. Not only is walking essential to living a healthy lifestyle, but it’s also free! When we are in cities we literally walk everywhere even if it means taking an extra 30 minutes to an hour. Then we can get a feel and direction for the city without spending a penny. If your destination is just too far to walk then opt for public transport instead of a taxi cab. I promise it’s more fun!''Tip:''We use the''Google Maps''app to get around in a new city, and always love its accuracy.''Maps.me''is also great if you are driving and don’t have access to WiFi.''Stay on Budget''I always find it helpful to set a daily budget for yourself and track it. We aim to spend less than $''50 per day when traveling''and that will include anything from our coffee to our hotel room. Of course, that’s easier for Cameron and I since we are usually together and can split many costs. If you decide to partake in an activity and go over your budget one day that’s okay, just try to stay under your budget the next day. A good budget tracking tool I like to use is the''Mint app.''Work While You Travel''If your goal is to travel for as long as possible then consider picking up a job on the road. There are plenty of jobs that allow you stay abroad that include''teaching English'', becoming a virtual assistant, translating, and working on a yacht. Another great option is to volunteer. While you probably won’t get paid, many volunteer programs will provide you with food and accommodation for a few hours of work each day. I’ve done this a few times in''Croatia''and''Morocco''. Websites that connect volunteers with business owners are''Workaway,''HelpX'', and''wwoofing.''Know the Rules''Ensure that you read the fine print on train tickets, airline tickets, hotel rooms, and apartment rentals to avoid extra charges. This is especially true when booking a flight and knowing each airlines baggage policy. A few hotel rooms and many Airbnbs will also charge cleaning and booking fees so it’s important to read up on everything so you aren’t surprised with extra charges.''Manage Finances''Have you read''our travel banking guide?''It’s a comprehensive guide that will teach you how to manage your finances on the road. Opt for a credit card that doesn’t charge foreign transaction fees on every purchase abroad. Then pick up a debit card with no ATM fees so that you aren’t charged a fee everytime you pull out cash. Always try your best to avoid using money changers and airport exchange booths at all times as they usually charge a high fee and find a way to rip your off. You can find out more about how we''access our cash while abroad here.''Eat in and Do Your Research''One of the easiest ways to go over budget is dining at restaurants every night. Go to the grocery store and cook a meal in whenever possible, and ask the locals for affordable lunch and dinner spots to try out. Stay away from the tourist areas when looking for places to eat as the food will cost twice as much and taste half as good. \xa0As a last resort, we always get on TripAdvisor and find out where we can get a great meal for an affordable price.''Join Free Walking Tours''Many big cities around the globe offer free walking tours. I love going on these not only because they are free, but also because I can learn about a new city while learning my way around, and it’s also a great way to make new friends! Just make sure to tip your guide!''Travel Insurance''Avoid any surprises and expensive trips to the hospital abroad by getting travel insurance. I know that it may seem like an unnecessary expense, even I was hesitant to buy travel insurance before my first trip abroad. However, it’s important to buy a policy for those''just in case''scenarios. We like to use''World Nomads.''Their policies not only give you medical coverage abroad, but they also give you trip protection coverage''i.e.''missed flights, lost baggage, and theft. If you’ll be traveling for a full year like us, check out IMG global for long-term plans.''Stay Connected''Don’t land in a new country and turn on your cell phone only to get hit with roaming charges. Any text, call, or Facebook message will most likely cost you an arm and a leg with your cell phone provider back home. Instead, go pick up a local sim card so that you have a working phone while abroad – it’s always nice to be connected! In many countries, data and minutes are incredibly affordable. It’s also worth noting that in this day and age we can find WiFi at almost any hotel, coffee shop, or restaurant (It’s true – I even''found it in rural Africa''). Not to mention it’s a lot safer to have a phone line for emergencies.''What do you think? Is it possible to save money for travel by implementing a few of these tips? I guarantee just reducing needless items will help your wallet out in no time.''Read More:''Tricks On How To Save On Accommodation''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''How Much Does Backpacking Europe Cost?''The Honest Cost to Backpack Through Europe''March 6, 2018''25 Easy Ways to Save Money for Travel''August 22, 2017''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''August 19, 2017''How Much Does it Cost to Live in NYC on the Cheap?''February 7, 2017''25 Easy Ways to Save Money for Travel''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Natasha''Africa is a continent filled with beautiful people, breathtaking landscapes, and unique wildlife. Despite all that it has to offer, there is a lack of information about travel on the continent. Many are lead to believe that it cannot be done and that there is nothing worth traveling for in Africa and that’s where Africa travel blogs come in.''However, for some travel enthusiast, Africa is a dream destination filled with soul, wildlife, adventure, landscapes, and charisma. These travelers all share their passion for travel through video, photographs, informative guides, and stories. It’s all in an effort to lift the veil on Africa and share the beauty that awaits fellow travelers. We realized recently that despite regularly following and using several blogs for information when we traveled around Africa, we realized there was no complete list.''Now that we’re back at home we had some time to think about what our favorites, and who the best is for travel in Africa. These African travel blogs are people who have shared their information with the world and produced some great content at the same time.''We choose to focus on impact, quality, variety, and experience when talking about the best Africa travel blogs.''All of the blogs are active and continue to push out new information about Africa and travel in general. If you have ever dreamed of going to Africa, but don’t know where to start here are 10 great Africa travel blogs to follow.''Top 10 Africa Travel Blogs''The World Pursuit – Best African Safari Travel Blog''Yep, that’s us! I had to include The World Pursuit as one of the best resources for planning a safari. I don’t think there’s are any bloggers out there who have spent more time on safari than us. We have a wealth of information on our blog including guides to almost every''major national park in Southern''and East Africa. We have both spent at least a year of our lives traveling all around Africa independently, with just about four of those''months on safari in the bush''in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Zambia, and Botswana. We also focused on filming much of our African adventure, so make sure to s''ubscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for a more visual sense of what Africa is all about.''Check out our post on how to''plan the ultimate African safari!''Helen In Wonderlust – Best For Africa Solo Female Travel''Helen’s knowledge for traveling Africa, mainly as a solo female backpacker, is extensive. We ran across her blog years before we got to Africa and I\xa0always remembered how informational so many of her posts were. She has some really great budget guides for traveling around East Africa that I would recommend to anyone wanting to do the solo travel thing. I loved her take on solo female travel in Africa. She now is running her own tours across the continent. So, if you’re not quite ready to tackle it on your own let her help you!''Check out''her tips for traveling alone there!''Safari Junkie – Best For General Backpacking''Safari Junkie is one of our favorite\xa0blogs for general travel information in places that many don’t think about. Burkina Faso, Ivory, Senegal, Gambia? Yep, Nina\xa0has you covered for all that! Over the last five years, she has traveled to some seriously hard to get to spots and lived in Tanzania while working with a safari company. She shares real life experiences and knowledge from her travels around the continent.''Check out her tips''for staying healthy in Africa''Maroc Mamma – Best For Morocco''When we spent six weeks traveling in Morocco''I couldn’t\xa0get enough of Maroc Mama. Amanda is an American expat living with her husband and children in Marrakech. She has one of the best travel blogs on Morocco with a ton of useful information. She also runs her own Moroccan food tour company so if you’re looking for any Moroccan inspired dishes to make you can certainly find them on her website!''I love her post about''things to do in Morocco, that you haven’t thought of''Maggie In Africa – Best For Overland''I remember we found out about Maggie in Africa when we were researching about a''particular border crossing in Africa''. “Maggie” is not a person, but instead a Land Rover Defender driving across Africa. Maggie’s owners,\xa0Noel and Reka, have tackled some amazing trips throughout both East and West Africa. The best part? They have tons of useful information on their blog about Overlanding Africa. Because in case you didn’t know, overlanding across Africa is seriously a difficult task – trust us, we’ve done it!''Going to Swaziland?''Check out their epic road trip across Swaziland!''Getting Stamped – Best For Overland Group Tour''If you’re planning on joining an overland group to travel across Africa then I would highly recommend reading Hannah and Adam’s blog first. They give great advice on packing, visas, and their general insights of taking overland tours across Africa. Their blog is a great resource for traveling around Southern and Eastern Africa, and they even share some of their funny stories like getting peed on by a lion and sleeping with elephants. All of this is accompanied by their beautiful photographs.''Check out their guide to shooting''night photography in Africa''Johnny Africa – Best For Expats in Africa''We found Johnny’s blog when we were researching''safety advice in around South Africa''. Johnny Africa is an American Canadian expat that moved to South Africa to live and work in Jo-Burg. He gives excellent advice and interesting stories about his time there. Besides living and working in South Africa he has also traveled to other places around the continent including Madagascar, a country we both long to travel around!''Many people ask us if South Africa is safe''–''check out Johnny’s take on it!''Green Global Travel – Best Editorial''If you’re into eco-friendly travel'', adventure, and interesting stories then head over to Green Global Travel. Bret and Mary have some great stories about their time around Africa and focus heavily on environmental issues threatening our globe. I love reading their takes on serious issues that many overlook\xa0in regards to travel. What makes their blog refreshing is their break from the standard form of blog content.''I loved reading about their time in''Rwanda and the Rwandan Genocide''Brendan’s Adventures – Best For West Africa''Brendan’s Adventures is one of the best African travel blogs for information on West Africa. Brendan is a travel photographer that has traveled all across the world. Some of his earlier adventures have brought him throughout West, East, and Southern Africa. He has some fabulous info on travel in west Africa that can be very hard to find.''Check out one of his many''cost guides to West Africa''Wild Junket – Best for Traveling Africa on a Budget''In case you haven’t heard, it’s really difficult to find up to date information on West Africa travel. However, Nellie does so effortlessly on her blog where she details her experiences in countries like Benin, Cape Verde, and Gambia. She shares real and unique travel experiences while shedding light on less visited destinations in the world!''Check out her photo essay that may have''convinced me to get to Cape Verde.''If you’re not already, go check out and follow these amazing Africa travel blogs. I’m certain they will get you dreaming of Africa!''Want to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Any great\xa0Africa travel blogs you guys recommend I add to the list?''Read Next:''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''The Ultimate Girls Packing List for Africa''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Cameron''You may think that a trip to Tibet is just like any other trekking and nature destination but there are a few things specific to''high altitude''as well as the type of landscapes and weather conditions that make it an extra important element to consider when packing for trekking in Tibet.''This packing list includes essential items that you should take on your Tibet vacation, particularly if you plan to visit''Everest Base Camp''. They are all important and you should make sure you have included them in your suitcase before leaving.''Clothes to Pack for Trekking in Tibet''Even in summer, the altitude and dry weather will mean colder nights. In May, temperatures are well below zero at''Everest Base Camp''and you cannot underestimate the wind chill factor. If there was ever a time to buy thermal underwear, this is it.''Thermal socks and underwear. Check here for''mens''and''womens''.''A thick hat. I would go as far as to suggest one of the''Russian or Siberian fluffy hats''that cover your ears and forehead''Heavy duty gloves''A windproof, waterproof (especially if you travel during the summer Monsoon months)''packable down jacket''.''Trekking boots not so much for trekking (unless you are indeed planning to), but to keep warm.''We like to use''Merrell Moab Ventilators.''A scarf to protect the throat and nose from the dryness and cold''Items of a personal nature to bring to Tibet''Sunglasses with high UV ray protection, the sun is extra strong at such high altitudes.''Sunscreen.''The sun rays are extremely strong high up so bring a high factor sunscreen and keep reapplying it despite the cold. Don’t be fooled into thinking that because it is cold the sun is weaker.''Lip balm is key in the hyper dry weather. Tibet is effectively a high altitude desert so the weather is incredibly dry.''Rich face moisturizer to keep the skin from the dryness.''We use Cerave.''Shampoo and conditioner are key as most hotels will not provide them and the weather conditions will make conditioner extra necessary on your dry hair.''Hand moisturizer.''Lots of tissues and''wet wipes''to wash after toilets, eating, to blow your nose when you sneeze, something which is a side effect of altitude. The drop toilets in Tibet don’t have water or toilet paper (they don’t even have doors or partitions between the floor holes) so you have to bring your own.''Make sure to bring''hand sanitizer''to kill all germs.''Parfum to put under your nose when using the public toilet, something that is unavoidable in the long road trips.''Non-pressurised shaving cream. Buying it at home at lower altitudes and bringing it up increases the risk of it exploding on you and it is likely going to be confiscated at the airport or on the train to Lhasa. Don’t bring anything in pressurized cans''Snacks for the long road journeys. Nuts will travel best and keep fresh and crunchy thanks to the dryness.''Water, one should drink even more water at high altitudes because your body evaporates it faster. In the dryness of the desert landscapes, you will need even more. Plan to drink a minimum of three liters a day. Buy large bottles in the cities or lunch stops to ensure you are hydrated.''Cash. Cards are not accepted outside of Lhasa and even if you are on an all inclusive tour you will need cash to buy water and to pay for photographs at temples and monasteries, more than you would think. Check here for our''tips on accessing cash abroad.''Medication to bring to Tibet''Altitude is the name of the game in Tibet and will set the tone for the entire trip. The country is at an average of 4,000m above sea levels and effective oxygen levels at such altitude are 40% lower than sea level. You have to be well prepared before and during the trip for things to go wrong.''Eye drops to counter the extreme dryness.''Nose spray to keep moisturized and reduce bleeding.''Painkillers especially for a headache, something that will be unavoidable at high altitudes, especially at Base Camp.''Antihistamines if you are prone to allergies as the dryness may cause a breakout.''Diarrhea and constipation tablets. The former is in case you react poorly to the food and water but the latter is key for altitude sickness.''Tablets to prevent car sickness. If you are prone to it, I would suggest you are aware that the journey through Tibet goes through several very high passes made of snaking 360-degree turn roads.''Altitude sickness medication which needs to be started prior to the trip. I would suggest consulting with your doctor about your Tibet vacation. Most people take Diamox.''Electronics and other accessories to pack''A camera that can work in colder temperatures. For example, phones will stop working when the temperatures go below zero so you won’t be able to take photos with them. We travel with a''Canon 80D''which is weather proof.''All the charging cables for all your electronics as finding a spare one in Lhasa or outside is practically impossible.''Tibet uses the''Chinese Type I adaptor''and I would recommend picking up one before you get there. \xa0Although European two-pin round plugs are also widely available, so a''universal adaptor''is another good item to travel with.''About the Author'':\xa0Mar Pages is the blogger behind Once in a Lifetime Journey. She has spent time trekking in Tibet, while we have not, so we brought her in to share her expertise with you! You can follow her adventures on''Facebook''and''Instagram.''What to Pack for Your Trekking in Tibet Vacation''was last modified:''November 13th, 2017''by''Natasha''Travel banking when you’re abroad can be confusing and costly. However, if you understand the basic principals of finance while traveling you’ll be able to save your hard-earned dollars. Which, in turn, can lead to more travel. This way you’re not stuck wondering about the best travel credit card or how to exchange foreign currencies and avoid ATM fees.''This is especially true for those traveling on a budget.''However, even the most luxurious of travelers will need to make “cents” of travel banking before going abroad. These banking tips are designed to''save you money while traveling''and prevent fraud.''Travel Banking''How to Avoid Bank Fees''Many banks charge fees these days and at times it’s overwhelming for anyone not in the know. The first problem likely to drive any traveler mad is unnecessary ATM fees. It is common place for many banks to slap a fee and percentage for every withdraw from an ATM abroad.''Fees can range from 1-5% of the transaction to even a couple of dollars per transaction. That could be a budget breaker for cash strapped backpackers or a price gouger for big spenders. The good news is it’s completely avoidable. When you do the math it’s easy to see how the dollars can add up.''Say you pull''$''200''out at a time and spend''$1600''dollars in cash during the course of your trip. If you’re getting hit with $4 fees from both the foreign ATM and your home bank withdraw on top of a''3%''foreign transaction fee the costs add up.''That $1600 could cost you around $112!''We always shop around with checking accounts and try to avoid foreign transaction fees with both our bank and the ATM we choose to withdraw from. So make sure to…''Get the Right Debit Card''There are a number of checking accounts and banks that offer no foreign transaction fees or a global ATM network. Two of the best options in the market for travelers is Charles Schwab and Ally Bank.''Charles Schwab''A''High Yield Investor Checking Account''through Charles Schwab eliminates all foreign transaction fees and even offers ATM rebates. That means that not only will you not get hit with a fee, but they’ll actually refund fees imposed on you by foreign banks. This works anywhere in the world and is the choice for most serious travelers. It should be noted they do a credit check and require new customers to open a brokerage account. We have had this debit card for seven years and never travel anywhere without it. It’s one of the best debit cards for international travel.''Ally Bank''The second bank we recommend is Ally Bank. While they do not eliminate all foreign transaction fees they come pretty close. Their''Interest Checking Account''only charges 1% for some foreign currencies and they reimburse you up to $10 in ATM fees every billing cycle, so as long as you’re strategic with your ATM withdrawals you may never have a fee. It’s a great option to use for travelers who do not have the credit for a Charles Schwab account or would like a backup solution. Ally Bank is also completely online and we find it to be one of the best international banks for expats. They have 24/7 support and you can deposit checks and sync up other accounts with Ally at the drop of a hat.''While we are not experts with banks''outside of America''we know many travelers choose to''bank with HSBC''. They offer global support and banking in almost 30 countries around the globe.''Exchange Currencies With Confidence''There are many ways to exchange currencies, but the first step is understanding the current exchange rates. Luckily most of us carry an amazing tool to help us out, our smart phones. There are a ton of free apps that offer currency exchange, but we’ve stuck with the same over the last four years of travel. The XE Currency app is by far the best one on the market.''I’ll never forget the look on some black market money changers in Africa when I pulled out the app in front of them as they were trying to scam us. It’s also a good idea to know a basic exchange rate before you land in a country. I once met a traveler who ended up paying $26 for a Big Mac in Dubai because he did not know the exchange rate. \xa0Check all rates on''www.xe.com''.''How to Exchange Money Abroad''You have a various number of options to exchange money. There are two ways we recommend.''Do Use ATM Machines''Using a debit card to withdraw cash from an ATM is the easiest way to get the local currency. You can find ATMs all over the world these days even small towns in Africa (trust us). We always choose to withdraw in the local currency and never in our home currency. That way the bank gives you a flat market exchange rate. There are number of banks and ATMs that offer to convert the currency for you before dispensing.''Do not let this happen''as it\xa0often ends in a poor exchange rate.''Do Use Credit Cards''We use our credit cards for every purchase we can. Our favorite is the''Capital One Venture Rewards card'', which offers purchase protection, no foreign transaction fees, and rewards redemption program. You can check out our other favorite''travel credit cards''you can earn rewards from. Which means not only do you receive a fair exchange rate, but you can earn up to 3% cash back. Many travel credit cards offer no foreign transaction fees and it’s just the same as paying in the local currency with a flat exchange rate. This all depends on where you are traveling as many parts of the world primarily use cash. I would say just about anywhere in the US, Europe, and even throughout Asia will let you use a credit card.''Credit cards offer purchase protection!''Here is the most simple way to think about purchase protection. When you use a debit card you are essentially writing a check or paying in cash electronically. However, when you use a credit card you’re taking a loan which means the bank must prove that you indeed authorized the purchase. This gives you great protection when it comes to fraud abroad. If you notice a charge on your credit card that you did not make you can call your credit card company and flag the charge. It is then up to them to close down the acccount and refund you for the unauthorized charge.''How Not to Exchange Money''Avoid Currency Exchange Booths''These guys are more or less, crooks. You find these exchange booths all over the airport, city centers, and train stations. Exchange booths generally offer terrible exchange rates and silly money back guarantees. They’re exceptional for finding a way to tack on a commission even if you see a “no commission” sign. This is generally done by offering horrendous exchange rates banking on travelers ignorance and desperation for cash.''Avoid Money Changers''Not only are money changers illegal in many parts of the world, but some can be straight up crooks. We avoid these guys at all costs, unless in an extreme situation. Money changers are prevalent around land borders and try to catch you in situations in which you’re forced to change money with them. On our recent overland trip in Africa,''borders were a downright nightmare''with ATMs and legitimate banks being few and far between. However, there was no shortage of money changers. The best way to deal with these guys is to hide all cash and''never''hand them cash until agreeing to a rate beforehand. Even after you agree you must check your cash in hand as they may try and scam you further and give you wrong amounts of cash. You have to be firm, observant, and stern with any money changers.''Protect Against Financial Fraud''Always Guard Your Cash''We burn through a lot of cash when we travel because it’s still the one thing universally accepted. Many developing nations still operate on cash payments. The problem with cash is that it’s susceptible to theft and can make you an easy target. In our most audacious travels, we carry $1000 in emergency funds, but generally only travel with about $200 in excess cash. There are a number of ways for first-time and experienced travelers to protect your cash.''There are a number of products on the market that are designed to hide money such as''bras'',''money belts'', and''silly money necklaces''.\xa0I prefer to keep a travel wallet in my front pocket and keep an eye on my waist in crowded areas, while Tasha will stash money in her bra. It may not be as “secure” as the anti-theft options, but I don’t run the risk of forgetting a new habit and leaving a money belt in my hotel room.''We recommend stashing emergency cash in your luggage, backpack, or suitcase. There are a number of great places to stash cash that we recommend.''Empty chapstick tubes''In prescription bottles''Sewn into fabric''Shoe sole insert''Dirty clothes''In hotel rooms it is always a good idea to use the hotel safe. We use them religiously after having cash stolen from our wallets in the hotel room while we were at breakfast. It might sound easy to accuse the cleaning staff, but it’s best not to present the opportunity as many maids work in harsh conditions and you may not notice items missing until you are long gone from your hotel anyway. If someone is stealing they more than likely need the money more than you so best not to present the opportunity and lock your valuables away.''Practice Fraud Prevention Tactics''The rates of financial fraud increase every year. However, if you’re savvy and protect yourself you’ll be able to protect your finances.''Multiple Bank Accounts''We keep three bank accounts each at least. It’s always best to keep your finances divided. A great place to start is to utilize a travel checking account, savings account, and personal checking account. I typically keep around $500-1000 in my travel account and transfer over money as needed to a checking account that I can withdraw from.''Savings Account''The bulk of your money should reside in a savings account like Ally Bank’s''Online Savings Account''. \xa0I recommend keeping the account separate from any other checking accounts and cards. That way there is nothing physical to steal linked to the account. The Ally Bank savings account currently offers 1.15% interest which is leaps and bounds better than any other savings account on the market. With just $10,000 in your savings account, that''means another $150 every year!''Online Banking''You need to make sure your online banking sessions are always secure. We never log in to our banks in public and avoid using public and unsecured WiFi. Always ensure your connection with your bank is secure and choose complicated passwords that are hard to guess.''Set Daily Limits''Take a look at your daily spending habits and then set a limit on both your credit cards and bank accounts. This means that even if your bank account or credit card is compromised the crook can only make away with a set limit.''Watch Your Credit Card''Card skimming is a popular form of fraud and it involves making a copy of your card that can then be used anywhere. To avoid this pay at the terminal with your credit card and keep eyes on it at all times.''Inform Your Bank''It’s always best to inform your bank and credit cards of your travel plans. This way when you arrive at your destination your credit and debit cards are working properly. Informing the bank also ensures they can better monitor fraud activity.''Travel Banking Summary''At the end of the day, you’ll live. We traveled all over the world and have never been victims of fraud, pickpockets, or robbery. The worst we’ve seen is 80 dollars lost in a hotel room.''If you follow these tips it will be easy to make sense of banking when traveling and ensure you save your hard money. Which means you can travel more for longer!''Read Next:''Best Credit Card for Travel Benefits''Tipping in Europe: Tips on Restaurant Etiquette''Living in NYC on a Budget: How We Saved Over $50k to Travel the World''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Cameron''I travel to a soundtrack. It’s a pretty normal thing these days as we all have our favorite travel songs, music, and playlists. A great playlist is an''essential for a long haul flight''or bus ride.''Even the image of a traveler with a pair of headphones is iconic. Maybe it started with those''catchy iPod commercials'', or it was just a natural progression. Now we could all use a little “travel music” in our lives, and I wanted to share my favorite songs on my playlist with you.''What Makes Great A Great Travel Playlist?''Music has the power to make us happy, share ideas, preserve culture, and inspire others. A great travel song should do something along those lines and it doesn’t necessarily have to be about traveling itself. I’ve added salsa greats like''Hector Lavoe'', Willie Colon, and Buena Vista Social Club in the past who is a must listen for any''traveler in Central America''.''Some of these talk of exploration and travel, but other’s simply convey a mood. Songs like''Tennessee Whisky''or Makeba may not have direct ties to travel, but they are like a snapshot of culture and transports you to another place. The songs on this list range from rap to rock, pop, salsa and even some country.''A playlist about traveling should be just as varied as our planet.''There is no reason to discriminate, good music is good music. Languages range from''Xhosa'', French, Hindi, Urdu, Arabic, and Spanish so we get a nice round up various songs from around the world. Some could be classics while others are modern day hits. I hope this travel playlist makes you smile, brings back memories, and provides you with some new tunes to jam to.''Go on and tackle the world with this great collection of travel music! This playlist is perfect for a road trip to''Iceland'',''Scotland'', or''Africa''!''Travel Music Playlist''Whatever music platform you use I’ve got the playlist on''Spotify'',''Apple Music'', and''Amazon Music''.''Send Me On My Way – Rusted Root''What better way to kick off this playlist than a song to send us on our way, even if it’s a bit hard to understand the lead singer at times.''Don’t Stop Me Now – Queen''Because every great collection of songs includes a song from Queen.''I’m Gonna Be – The Proclaimers''This Scottish rock band is a classic for road trips and travel songs. It’s perfect for driving 500 miles, for example, the NC500 in Scotland for instance.''Ramble On – Led Zeppelin''You can’t go wrong with Led Zeppelin and “Ramble On” is just too fitting a title.''Cold Little Heart – Michael Kiwanuka''The newest song on this list is gorgeous and haunting. It’s perfect for reflection.''Society – Eddie Vedder''Pearl Jam’s lead man stepped away to record the soundtrack to “Into the Wild” and gave us a stunning album. Society speaks of checking out of the “need” and “want” in society to be “free.”''Harvest Moon – Neil Young''The melody of this song is beautiful. Exploration and travel can have many moods and feelings. This song is perfect for a long walk down the beach.''The World At Large – Modest Mouse''This song is all about escaping. It could be to “another planet,” or just another city.''Aeroplane – Red Hot Chili Peppers''What could be more fitting for a playlist of travel songs? Anthony Kleidis explains it all with “music is my aeroplane.”''California Love – 2Pac''“California knows how to party”''Big Jet Plane – Angus & Julia Stone''It’s hard to escape the chorus of this song, even if it’s on about traveling.''Little Talks – Of Monsters & Men''“Though the truth may vary. This ship will carry our bodies safe to shore”''The Funeral – Band of Horses''Africa -Toto''It’s catchy. It’s awesome. It’s Epic.''It’s Africa''. Deal with it.''Shakira – Waka Waka''The 2010 World Cup song. Nothing unites the world like football and Shakira. It’s one of the biggest songs of all time and just about everyone in the world has heard it.''Pata Pata – Miriam Makeba''This song is undeniably catchy even if you can’t understand all of the Xhosa lyrics. Makeba was a vocal activist against apartheid in South Africa and was even exiled. After the release and election of Nelson Mandela, he himself personally convinced her to return where she continued to produce music and fight for civil rights in Africa.''Makeba – Jain''It’s catchy, draws heavily on modern afro beats, and it’s a tribute to Makeba. Pretty cool with me.''Gangnam Style – PSY''I’ll never forget the moment I came across this video on Reddit. It left me speechless. The music video was simultaneously hilarious and amazing. It had all of 4 Million views which was massive at the time, fast forward to 2017 and the music video has nearly 3 billion views. PSY has become a cross cultural phenomenon touring all over the world and is a perfect example of the increasingly global world and music scene.''Paper Planes – M.I.A.''Sri Lankan M.I.A. is a polarizing figure and Paper Planes is a politically charged song filled with drug references. It shouldn’t be any this song is considered one of the best of its decade.''Soy Yo -Bomba Estereo''Bomba Estereo has been making waves for nearly a decade now bringing Colombia and Modern South American music to the masses. There electro jungle beats and entrancing lyrics are sure to hook you. Get ready for some fire in Latin America.''Aguanile – Willie Colon & Hector Lavoe''Sticking with Espanol and heading up to central America it’s time for some salsa. This is a classic song by two of the genre’s greats.''Chan Chan – Buena Vista Social Club''This album sparked an interest internationally in Central American music. The talent of the ensemble group is everywhere in the album.''All Izz Well – Kej''Bollywood is a cultural juggernaut and right behind Hollywood. This is from “3 Idiots” starring Aamir Khan one of the celebrated modern day Indian films.''Chaiya Chaiya – Sukhwinder Singh''This song is from the Hindi film Dil Se, but what’s most incredible is the music video shot entirely on a train… You have to watch it. Oh, and the song is great.''Lamallem – Saad Lamjarred''Moroccan culture and music was well known for its influence in music laying claim influencing greats like Jimi Hendrix. However, it’s been largely quiet in recent years until pop sensation Saad Lamjarred came along.''Indian Summer – Jai Wolf''Something about this makes you want to explore the world.''Around The World – Daft Punk''The French duo known as Daft Punk are juggernauts in the music industry and the world is still waiting for the day they tour “around the world,” again.''Night Call – Kavinsky''Produced by one-half of Daft Punk the opening song to the movie Drive makes me want to put the pedal to the metal and drive.''The Passenger – Iggy Pop''I love this song.''Anderson .Paak – Come Down''Have you heard of Anderson .Paak yet? Expect to see a lot more of this guy if you didn’t catch his incendiary Grammy performance. The song is upbeat and blends jazz, hip hop, rock, and soul successfully.''Call Me – St Paul & The Broken Bones''This white guy from Alabama has got the soul!''Tennessee Whisky – Chris Stapleton''Chris Stapleton is one of the most prolific song writers with being credited for dozens of modern country hits and even Adele. However, it’s his cover of Tennessee Whisky I can’t seem to get out of my head.''Born To Be Wild – Steppenwolf''If there is one Iconic travel song it has to be Born To Be Wild. “Head out on the highway. Lookin’ for adventure”''King Of The Road – Roger Miller''He may have nothing, but the “King of the Road” has all the freedom of a vagabond.''Jackson – Johnny Cash & June Carter Cash''“When I breeze into that city, people gonna stoop and bow.” It’s about setting the night on the fire in a new city song by a country great.''Home – Edward Sharpe & The Magnetic Zeros''It’s hard to stay in a bad mood when listening to this song. It’s a love song about being at “home” with your friend or someone special no matter where you are in the world.''Born To Run – Bruce Springsteen''Let’s all follow Bruce’s advice and escape the modern day “death trap…suicide rap” and hit the open road because we were “born to run.”''Space Oddity – David Bowie''Who’s going to be the first tourist in space?''Diamonds On The Soles Of Her Shoes – Paul Simon''It’s a blend of Americana and South African\xa0Lady Blacksmith Mambazo that’s undeniably catchy. It’s hard not to love Paul Simon.''Coming Home – Leon Bridges''What decade is Leon Bridges from? Because he certainly doesn’t sound like a modern day artist despite being only 28. I just hope my travels home go as smooth as his voice and this song.''Theme from New York, New York – Frank Sinatra''What more can be said about the legendary Frank Sinatra. It’s the perfect song to sip martinis in the greatest city on earth. (''New York'').''Je T’aime moi mon Plus –\xa0Serge Gainsbourg''Serge is more or less the French version of Frank Sinatra and one of the most Iconic French pop artists. His musical style varies greatly and you can find his influence across a wide range of music and pop culture.''Zina – Babylone''Algerian rock band Bablyone made this beautiful love song that has an ability to transcend language.''Like A Rolling Stone – Bob Dylan''One of the greatest songs of all time.''Carolina In My Mind – James Taylor''Not only is it a destination song, but it’s from my home state. Every time I hear this song it brings me right back home. I couldn’t think of a better song to finish with.''[Get the playlist on Apple Music]''[''Get the playlist on Amazon Music''][''Get the playlist on Spotify'']''Don’t Forget…''We love to travel with''portable speakers''when we are on the road so we can both enjoy the same music.''Good headphones''can also be hard to come by when you are abroad. We usually travel with two in case we lose one.''We personally store all of our music on our phones, but the''iPod shuffle''is a good cheap alternative to burning through your storage.''Read Next:''The Essential Beach Packing List for any Vacation''Around the World with Instagram: Destinations to Make You Pack Your Bags''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''April 17, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''April 12, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''March 5, 2018''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''January 17, 2018''All The Best Travel Songs and Music in one Playlist''was last modified:''November 13th, 2017''by''Cameron''I know they are a little cheesy, but I love a good inspirational travel quote. Everyday I change out one on my sticky tab while I work from''my laptop''.''Whether it be a''movie'', a''book'', or a real life quote that I hear in person a quote can stick with me for a long time. My favorite are the short travel''quotes''that can be easily remembered and implemented into real life travel.''Quotes about travel remind me of a''great travel memory'', and can easily bring back emotions I’ve had while traveling the world.''Here are my favorite travel quotes that wanted to share with you. I hope they inspire you to live your life to the fullest and to take a leap of faith in travel. So grab your''camera''and explore the great unknown!''Short Travel Quotes''“Jobs fill your pocket,''Adventures''fill your soul” \xa0―''Jaime Lyn Beatty''“My favorite thing to do is go where I’ve''never been''” –''Annonymous''“''Freedom.''Only those deprived of it know what it really is” – Timothy Cavendish,''Cloud Atlas''“If you’re twenty-two, physically fit,''hungry to learn''and be better, I urge you to travel – as far and as widely as possible. Sleep on floors if you have to. Find out how other people live and eat and cook, learn from them – where you go.” –''Anthony Bourdain''“If it''scares''you ,it may be a good thing\xa0to try” –''Seth Godin''“I am not the same, having seen the moon''shine''on the other side of the world.”''– Mary Anne Radmacher''“The''biggest risk''in life, is not taking one” –''Barfi''“To live is the''rarest thing''in the world. Most people exist, that is all” –''Oscar Wilde''“When was the last time you did something for the''first time''?” –''John C. Maxwell''“I never knew of a''morning in Africa,''when I woke up and was not happy” –''Ernest Hemingway''“When overseas you learn more about your''own country'', than you do the place you’re visiting.” –''Clint Borgen''“If I’d learnt one thing from traveling, it was that the way to get things done was to go ahead and do them.Don’t talk about going to Borneo. Book a ticket, get a visa, pack a bag, and it just happens.” ― Alex Garland,''The Beach''“Life begins at the end of your''comfort zone''” –''Neale Donald Walsch''“You don’t choose the day you enter the world and you don’t choose the day you leave. It’s what you do''in between''that makes all the difference.” –''Anita Septimus''“Two roads diverged in a wood and I took the one''less traveled''by.” –''Robert Frost''“Some people are so poor, all they have is''money''” –''Patrick Meagher''“You don’t have to be''rich''to travel well. ” –''Eugene Fodor''“''Stop being afraid''of what could go wrong, and focus on what could go right” –''Annonymous''“The purpose of life is to''live it'', to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.” –''Eleanor Roosevelt''Yesterday'', I believe I never would have done what I did today” – David Mitchell,''Cloud Atlas''“I travel because''seeing photos''in brochures wasn’t good enough for me. It was to be there, that was everything” –''Wiremu Ratcliffe''You can,\xa0you should, and if you‘re''brave enough''to start, you will.” —''Stephen King''“And then there is the most dangerous risk of all — the risk of''spending your life''not doing what you want on the bet you can buy yourself the freedom to do it later.” –''Randy Komisar''“Life is either a''daring adventure''or nothing at all.” –''Helen Keller''“The more I traveled the more I realized that fear makes strangers of people who''should be friends''” –''Shirley MacLaine''“Travel makes one modest, you see what a''tiny place''you occupy in the world” –''Gustave Flaubert''“There’s a''sunrise and a sunset''every single day, and they’re absolutely free. Don’t miss so many of them.” –''Jo Walton''“I’m not sure what I’ll do, but— well, I want to go places and see people. I want''my mind to grow''. I want to live where things happen on a big scale.”―''F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Ice Palace''“Please be a traveler,''not a tourist.''Try new things, meet new people, and look beyond what’s right in front of you. Those are the keys to understanding this amazing world we live in.”―''Andrew Zimmern''“I travel around the world in a way that tries to open my mind and give me empathy and inspire me to come home and make this''world a better place.''” –''Rick Steves''“''Travel far enough'', you meet yourself” –''David Mitchell''“What you’ve done becomes the judge of what you’re going to do – especially in other people’s minds. When you’re traveling, you are what you are right there and then. People don’t have your past to hold against you.''No yesterdays on the road''.” –''William Least Heat Moon''“You’ll miss the''best things''if you keep your eyes shut.” –''Dr. Seuss''“Our happiest moments as tourists always seem to come when we''stumble upon''one thing while in pursuit of something else.” —''Lawrence Block''“A''ship in harbor''is safe, but that is not what ships are built for.” –''John A. Shedd''“To Live will be an''awfully big adventure''” –''Peter Pan''“''Once the travel bug bites''there is no known antidote, and I know that I shall be happily infected until the end of my life” –''Michael Palin''“We travel,''some of us forever'', to seek other states, other lives, other souls.”―''Anaïs Nin''“To travel is to''discover''that everyone is wrong about other countries.” –''Aldous Huxley''“If you reject the food,''ignore the customs,''fear the religion and avoid the people, you might better stay home.” –''James Michener''“Every exit is an entry''somewhere else.''” –''Tom Stoppard''“I love waking up in the morning not knowing what’s gonna happen or''who I’m gonna meet,''where I’m gonna wind up.” –''Jack Dawson, Titanic''I travel not to go anywhere, but to go. I travel for''travel’s sake''. The great affair is to move.”''– Robert Louis Stevenson''“One recognizes one’s course by''discovering the paths''that stray from it.” \xa0 —''Albert Camus''“Paris''is always a good idea” –''Audrey Hepburn''“To move, to breathe, to fly,''to float'', to gain all while you give. To roam the roads of lands remote, to travel is to live.” –''Hans Christian Andersen''“A''hangover''suggests a great night, jet lag suggests a great adventure.” —''J.D. Andrews''“''Life moves pretty fast.''If you don’t stop and look around for a while, you could miss it.” – Ferris Bueller,''Ferris Bueller’s Day Off''“Surely, of all the wonders of the world, the''horizon''is the greatest.” –''Freya Stark''“The world is big and I want to get a''good look''at it before it gets dark.” –''John Muir''The most beautiful thing in the''world,''is of course, the world itself –''Wallace Stevens''“The fear of death follows from the''fear of life''. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.” –''Mark Twain''“To see the world, things dangerous to come to, to see behind walls, draw closer, to find each other, and to feel. That is the''purpose of life''.” –\xa0Walter Mitty,''The Secret Life of Walter Mitty''“Life offers you a''thousand chances''… all you have to do is take one.” ― Frances Mayes,''Under the Tuscan Sun''“''Call your mom'', without her you would not be traveling today” – Me (''Natasha Alden'')''Explore the Scotland!''Have any amazing short travel quotes that I missed?''Read Next:''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''The Best Travel Movies To Inspire Wanderlust''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''I Want to Travel the World: 50 Memories in 50 Countries''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''50 Short Travel Quotes to Inspire You to TRAVEL''was last modified:''April 10th, 2018''by''Natasha''You want the best passport wallet to protect your most valuable assets when traveling. Replacing travel documents while traveling is a serious issue and not something anyone wants to deal with. That is why we always carry a quality passport holder when we’re in a foreign country.\xa0It’s important to have a firm grasp on where your identification, boarding pass, or credit cards are located.''Otherwise, it can result in unnecessary stress during a''long international flight''or a new country. Travel is meant to be enjoyable so staying organized is key to relaxation.\xa0Organization and preparedness are two are important elements to a successful trip. An organized passport holder is like a breath of fresh air. It keeps all your documents, dollars, itineraries, and''rewards credit cards''in one place. We suggest something that is hard to lose, combats theft, and organizes the details of the trip. In this post, we share some our favorite passport wallets on the market.''Table Of Contents''What Makes a good passport wallet?''Best Passport Wallets''General''Herschel Supply Raynor''Zero Grid Neck Wallet''Agilisk Family Travel Wallet''Men''Bestkee Passport Wallet''Mr. Lentz Minimalist Passport Wallet''Saddleback Leather Passport Wallet''Simpacx Fabric Passport Wallet''Women''Zoppen Trifold''Michael Kors Jetset Wallet''Fintie Vegan Passport Holder''Pacsafe RFID Blocking Travel Wallet''What makes a good passport holder?''RFID blocking technology:''You’re going to see this acronym thrown around a lot in this post. RFID stands for''Radio-frequency identification.''RFID tags use electromagnetic fields to identify and track store your information. It’s a new feature utilized in a lot of new credit cards and passports.''Long gone are the days of actually stealing a credit card. Thieves can now use this technology against you to steal all your information. Thankfully, many travel wallets have RFID blocking technology to discourage this.''Durability:''When you’re traveling you want something that is durable and going to hold up through all your trips. Why spend money on something that won’t last? The materials used in the construction and design of your wallet should be high quality.''Convenience:''They make passport holders in all shapes and sizes. Some wallets are big and bulky while others are small and lightweight. It’s important to identify if it’s convenient for you and your needs. For me, that means it fits easily inside a purse or backpack and holds my phone.''Compartments:''Some of the best passport wallets only hold a passport. Some come with credit card slots and change purses, while others can hold pens and USB sticks inside them. Make sure you get one to hold all that you need.''Style:''For many people, style an\xa0is an important aspect when traveling. It wouldn’t be fitting for a business traveler, honeymooner, or fashionista to pull out some ugly neck wallet to pay for their cappuccino.''Best Passport Wallets''Herschel Supply Co. Raynor Passport Holder''Hershel Supply Co.''is one of my''favorite brands for backpacks'', so why would I not choose them for travel accessories? They are known for durable high-quality products. It is likely you will have this passport cover for life. The Herschel product comes in different colors so you can easily choose one to match the rest of''your carry on luggage set''. The Herschel travel wallet is just the right size to hold your passport plus some space for extra cash, notes, and visas.''Pros of the Herschel travel wallet''Durable and backed by a great brand''Large enough to hold two passport, credit cards, and visas at''5.75″ high and''4″ wide''Stylish Look.''Great for not only traveling but also hanging around town''Fair Price''Cons of the Herschel travel wallet''Not RFID''Have to fold cash to fit it inside''Check the prices here!''Zero Grid Neck Wallet''If you’re looking for a passport holder that hangs around your neck comfortable the zero grid is perfect.''The Zero Grid''is made out of ripstop nylon and is lightweight, and water resistant. There are also many zippers and compartments allowing for optimal organization and protection while still implementing RFID technology. The best part is that neck wallets like these are hard for thieves to identify making you less of a target when traveling.''Pros of the Zero Grid Neck Wallet''Water resistant, comfortable mesh materials''Neck strap''Many compartments for organization and can easily fit even your phone''RFID technology''Cons of the Zero Grid Neck Wallet''Neck strap may get uncomfortable''You look like a goofball''Not as durable as leather or sturdier material''Check the prices here!''Agilisk Family Travel Wallet''This is the ultimate travel passport holder for families. This holder can take in all you travel with like four passports, money, credit cards, keys, change, a phone, a flash drive, and even a pen with a small notepad. You may think with all these features it wouldn’t be great for securing your belongings. However, the''Agilisk has a RFID blocking liner''and is made out of soft nylon.''Pros of the family passport holder''Can fit all your families important items in it''Great price''RFID technology to secure your information''Designed for both men and women''Cons of this family passport holder''Large and can be inconvenient to carry around the airport''Nylon, so less durable than leather''Check the prices here!''Pacsafe RFIDsafe V150 RFID Blocking Bi-Fold Wallet''Pacsafe specializes in designing bags and products to protect your valuables from theft. Their passport wallet is one of the best for security so for those who plan to spend some time backpacking and walking around in crowded local markets, this could be a great option. The wrist strap is designed so that it is difficult to cut and tightens on your wrist – this will stop snatch and grab thieves. The clutch is roomy and can fit 6 cards, cash, coins, and even multiple passports.''Pros of the family pas''sport holder''Great security''RFID technology to secure your information''Multiple Passports''Bifold Design''Unisex''Cons of this family passport holder''Large''Only available in black''Check the prices here!''Best Travel Wallets for Men''Bestkee passport wallet''I knew I loved the''Bestkee passport holder''as soon as I saw it. This product is made out of''Italian Full Grain leather so it is stylish, yet soft and smooth. There are multiple slots to this wallet so you can easily keep your passport, credit cards, cash, and boarding passes separately from each other. When you can stay organized with a great passport holder like this it’s hard to lose things.''Pros of the Bestkee Passport wallet''RFID Blocking Shield to protect yourself against scams''Many different slots for credit cards, boarding pass, keys, and credit cards''Fits in cargo pants''Stylish and unique design''Cons of Bestkee Passport holder''With all different slots, this holder can easily become bulky''Cheap Leather''Fits in cargo pants (who wants to wear those?)''Check the prices here!''Mr. Lentz Leather Passport Wallet''This is one of the best and most''beautiful\xa0men’s passport wallets''on the market. Simple, yet functional, and perfect travelers who want to portray that simplicity. Made out of high-quality vegetable tanned leather right from the US and hand riveted with solid brass this is one fancy passport holder.''Pros of the Mr. Lents passport holder''easily fit 4 cards and a bit of cash as well as your passport''There is a two-person passport holder as well if for couples or families''100-year warranty''can be personalized''Different beautiful color leather options''Rugged''High Quality''Cons of the Mr. Lents Passport Holder''Not RFID''Must allow leather to stretch for optimal fit''Check the prices here!''Saddleback Leather Long Passport Wallet''We love''Saddleback Leather.''We’ve had their backpacks for quite some time now and can testify to their beauty and durability. \xa0This is a long passport meaning it won’t fit easily in your pants, however, the passport wallet holder is great for flipping in and out of a jacket. Saddleback Leather hasn’t skimped on the RFID shield or their 100% full grain boot leather. They use the highest quality materials and are backed by a 100-year warranty, so one of these is sure to last you a lifetime.''Pros of the long leather passport wallet''Beautiful and slim design''RFID technology''100-year warranty''Easily holds passport, boarding pass, credit cards and cash safely''Cons of the long leather passport wallet''The long design does not allow for it to easily fit in pants''A high price tag at $130''Check the prices here!''SimpacX Fabric Passport Holder''A cool, no-frills passport holder is exactly what some men may want when they travel. What’s great about the''SimpacX''is that is an incredibly affordable price, but still features RFID technology, and many slots to hold credit cards, cash, and a passport. This wallet will also be able to easily slip in and out of men’s travel pants.''Pros of the Fabric Passport holder''RFID technology''Slick and simple''Super Cheap''Holds credit cards, cash, and passport''At $10, you can’t really beat the price''Cons of Fabris Passport holder''Some users note a strong chemical scent upon receiving.''Check the prices here!''Best Passport Wallets for Women''Zoppen\xa0Tri-fold Document Organizer Holder''For the ladies that want a high-quality tri-fold passport holder that still looks great, I would highly recommend this''Zoppen wallet''. It has so many compartments I don’t know where to start, and even has a cell phone pouch. The wallet comes with RFID technology and can be purcahsed in a myriad of colors.''Pros of purchasing the Zoppen\xa0Tri-Fold Passport Holder''RFID technology''many pockets to stay organized''More than 20 colors to choose from''Holds smartphones''Cons of purchasing the Zoppen\xa0Tri-Fold Passport Holder''The eco-friendly material may feel cheap''Check the prices here!''Michael Kors Jet Set Passport Case''For the stylish woman traveler this''Michael Kors passport wallet''is exactly what you want. This wallet is small and discreet enough to stash away in your purse, and conveniently holds one passport and a few credit cards. For the designer lover, this Michael Kors passport case is\xa0beautiful, strong and functional.''Pros of the Michael Kors Passport Wallet''Beautiful Michael Kors design for the fashion conscious''Small and not bulky''Holds passport and credit cards well''Cons of the Michael Kors Passport Wallet''Not RFID''Micheal Kors is an expensive brand''Check the prices here!''Fintie Vegan Passport Holder''I have to admit this is not only one of my favorite travel wallets because of the low price, but because it is''certified vegan''! For less than $10 you can choose from many beautiful designs to fit your needs as well as protect yourself from scams with RFID technology. This passport holder has numerous slots to hold business cards, credit cards, and boarding passes easily but is still lightweight. It’s obviously synthetic leather on the inside and out and protects from the harsh outside elements of traveling.''Pros of the Fintie passport holder''Vegan!''Small and discreet, yet functional''Low price''RFID technology''Unique design to fit your taste''Cons of the Fintie Passport holder''Synthetic leather so not as great as real leather''Check the prices here!''Pacsafe RFID Blocking Travel Wallet''Pacsafe''is a great brand for travelers to use and are well known for their theft proof products. This was one of the first travel wallets I ever picked up and it even after four years of traveling it has held up extremely well. This wallet is 100% nylon and is large enough to hold a passport, cash, loose change, credit cards, and even a slim smartphone. What I love most about this is it is in the shape of a clutch so it can easily double for a fun purse on a night out of the town.''Pros of the Pacsafe wallet''Conveniently holds passport, phone, change, and credit cards''Can act as a wristlet or clutch''RFID blocking material''Pacsafe brand''Cons of the Pacsafe wallet''Very large for the average traveler''Check the prices here!''Read Next:''The Best Carry On Luggage For Your Next Trip''Best Carry On Backpacks to Help You Pack Smart''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''The Ultimate Snowboard and Ski Trip Packing List''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The 12 Best Passport Wallets for Both Men and Women''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Cameron''London is one of the most touristic cities in the world, and with so much to do and so much to see, there are also a lot of accommodation choices. Confused by the variety of hotels? Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered. This list of the best hotels in London contain luxury hotels, as well as more affordable ones, but they’re all fabulous choices.''The Best Places to Stay in London''Shangri-La Hotel''This high-rated hotel provides the perfect luxurious experience. Shangri-La has excellent facilities from its pool to the Shard’s bars and restaurants. Its best asset is, however, is the breathtaking views of the city.''Check Prices Here!''Mondrian London Hotel''Mondrian is another luxury hotel. It is very well located at Southbank close to the major London’s attractions and a short tube ride away to anywhere in town. The hotel’s bar, Dandelyan, was even recently voted as the best bar in London. On top of Dandelyan, there is also the hotel’s rooftop bar, Rumpus Room, which one of the hottest bars in London.''Check Prices Here!''Ace Hotel Shoreditch''This fashionable and modern hotel is located in one of London’s trendiest neighborhoods. Therefore, its strong location in Shoreditch is a great advantage for those who want to enjoy London’s nightlife. But the hotel has much more to offer than just its location, as it also has some great facilities.''Check Prices Now!''The Landmark''Elegant and chic 5-star hotel that is located in Marylebone. Opened in 1899, the Landmark is now one of London’s most iconic hotels. With a lobby looking like a tropical paradise, no wonder this hotel is one of the best places to stay in London.''Check Prices Now!''CitizenM Tower of London''This hotel is a great affordable option for business travelers or young travelers. Its location and comfort combined with its magnificent Tower of London views make it a great value for money. The hotel’s greatest facility is its rooftop bar which allows guests to relax and drink delicious cocktail overlooking the Tower of London.''Check Prices Here!''Sanderson Hotel''Sanderson has a unique and innovative design, as well as comfortable spacious rooms. Being just around the corner from Oxford street makes this hotel perfectly located for tourists at the heart of London. The hotel greatest attractions is its ground floor chic bar and its themed afternoon tea.''Check Prices Here!''The Connaught''This contemporary luxury hotel provides a classy British experience for its guests and is one of the best in London. With a chic gourmet restaurant, stunning-looking suites and excellent location at the trendy neighborhood Mayfair- there is no wonder Connaught hotel made it to our list.''Check Prices Now!''The Ritz''No list of best hotels is complete without the Ritz. This 5-star hotel is the definition of luxury. The Ritz London doesn’t need any further introduction, as it’s already a very well-known hotel. However, if you don’t already know, the Ritz is especially popular for its traditional afternoon tea.''Check Prices Here!''Me London''This hotel is best known for being the home of one of London’s greatest rooftop bars, Radio. But, if you’re lucky enough to have this gorgeous hotel within your budget, grab it while you can, as it is a great option.''Check Prices Here!''Park Plaza Westminster Bridge''This is a perfect hotel for every kind of traveler, whether you’re in town for holiday or for business, if you love luxury or if you’re looking for a high-end hotel without breaking the bank. The versatility of this hotel along with its location is what makes it so desirable.''Check Prices Here!''About the Author:''Hadas Aharon is a Luxury Fashion & Travel Blogger at''The Fashion Matters''.\xa0\xa0To follow her adventures check her out on''Instagram!''Plan Your Trip to London''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to London:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in London perfectly fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet.''Adapter:''Remember that the UK uses the''British Three Prong plug''.''The 10 Best Places to Stay in London''was last modified:''August 15th, 2017''by''Natasha''I used to pass my time reading new adventure quotes on travel before we left to explore the world. It wasn’t all that long ago that we’d sit in our cold''NYC apartment in February''reading quotes from more intrepid adventurers. It became a ritual in the mornings on my way to the gym.''I’d start with a new quote – one that prepares me to tackle the world.''During that time we spent our days reading books on our long commute to work and nights were spent watching films that focused on travel and adventure. And''saving every penny we could for travel''. Adventure is a pretty subjective word to me, but in the basic sense, it’s anything that is exciting and unusual. For our most recent adventure, it was''amazing safaris across Africa''!''It’s why many people in our generation choose to travel over buying more material items. However, when you dive into''literature''and''film''you find that the idea of a life full of moments and adventures is not a new one. It dates back all the way to the ancient Greeks.''We have spent so much time contemplating what it is''we’d like in life''and we’re still not sure, but we do hope it’s always an adventure. I hope that these quotes inspire you to live a fulfilling life too. In no particular order here are a handful of the best adventure''quotes about travel!''Adventure Quotes''1.''“You know you are truly''alive''when you’re living among lions.”''-Karen Blixen''2.''“Every man’s life ends the same way. It is only the''details''of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another.”''-Ernest Hemingway''3.''“Life is either a daring''adventure''or nothing.”''-Helen Keller''4.''“Adventure is''worthwhile''.”''-Aesop''5.''“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn’t do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails.''Explore. Dream. Discover''.”''-Mark Twain''6.''“‘It’s a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don’t keep your feet, there’s no knowing where you might be''swept off to''.”''-J.R.R Tolkien''7.''“When you see someone putting on his''Big Boots'', you can be pretty sure that an Adventure is going to happen.”''-A.A. Milnie''8.''“Adventure is''worthwhile''in itself.”''-Amelia Earhart''9.''“I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die,''discover''that I had not lived.”''-Henry David Thoreau''10.''Every man can transform the world from one of monotony and drabness to one of''excitement''and adventure.”''-Irving Wallace''11.''“Two roads''diverged''in a wood, and I – I took the one less traveled by.”''-Robert Frost''12.''“Oh the''places you’ll go.''”''-ƒfar Seuss''13.''“People don’t take trips,''trips take people''.”''-John Steinbeck''14.''“To''travel''is to discover that everyone is wrong about other countries.”''-Aldous Hux''15.''“The''world''is a book, and those who do not travel read only one page.”''-Saint Augustine''16.''“The man who goes alone can start today, but he who''travels''with another must wait till that other is ready.”''-Henry David Thoreau''17.''“For my part, I travel not to go anywhere but to go. I travel for travel’s sake. The''great affair''is to move.”''-Robert Louis Stevenson''20.''“To my mind, the greatest reward and''luxury''of travel is to be able to experience everyday things as if for the first time, to be in a position in which almost nothing is so familiar it is taken for granted.”''-Bill Bryson''21.''All men dream, but not''equally.''Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds, wake in the day to find that it was vanity: but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act on their dreams with open eyes, to make them possible.''-T.E. Lawrence''22.''“I hope you see things that startle you. I hope you feel things you never felt before. I hope you meet people with a different point of view. I hope you live a life you’re proud of. If you find that you’re not, I hope you have the strength to start all over again.”''-Eric Roth,''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button''23.''“So we beat on,''boats against the current'', borne back ceaselessly into the past.”''-F. Scott Fitzgerald''24.''“Only those who''risk''going too far can possibly find out how far they can go.”''-T.S Eliot''25.''“When a resolute young fellow steps up to the great bully, the world, and takes him boldly by the beard, he is often''surprised''to find it comes off in his hand, and that it was only tied on to scare away the timid adventurers.”''-Ralph Waldo Emerson''26.''“The''purpose of life'', after all, is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience.”''-Eleanor Roosevelt''27.''“Travel far enough, you meet''yourself''.”''–''David Mitchell''28.''“A person should''set his goals''as early as he can and devote all his energy and talent to getting there. With enough effort, he may achieve it. Or he may find something that is even more rewarding. But in the end, no matter that the outcome, he will know he has been alive.”''-Walt Disney''29.''“A man practices the art of adventure when he breaks the chain of routine and renews his life through reading new books, traveling to new places, making new friends, taking up new hobbies and adopting new''viewpoints''.”''-Wilfred Peterson''30.''“One way to get the most out of life is to look upon it as an''adventure''.”''-William Feather''Watch Our Last Great Adventure!''Read Next:''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''Why Don’t Americans Travel Internationally?''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Cameron''Heading to the coast for a vacation? Use our beach packing list to help you pack everything you will need for a great trip. This packing list includes all the essentials you need to enjoy some fun in the sun.''Plus it’s helpful for family beach vacations, party beach trips, and even the active beachgoers. We’ve traveled to every ocean in the world with the items mentioned as we feel we are constantly chasing the endless summer dream.''Beach Packing List''Essentials Items''Swimsuit''You’re heading to the beach so obviously\xa0the number one thing you need is a swimsuit! I usually like to travel with at least two different swimsuits so that I know I will always have an extra dry one on hand. One of my favorite brands for swimsuits is''Marc Jacobs''.''For men, I would say one to two is a good number of swimsuits to travel to the beach with as well. Cameron has long loved''Billabong board shorts''they make great quality shorts and stay up to date with trends. His suggestions on board shorts are to stick with darker colors as they hold up longer and to get a shorter cut above the knee.''Enjoying the beach in Wilmington!''Tourit Portable Cooler''For any day trip to the beach, you’re going to want some cold drinks. After we throw our bathing suits on it’s the first thing we pack up. Traditional coolers are heavy and a pain on the beach so we use a portable travel cooler like the''Tourit 30''when we’re on the beach. It claims to keep your drinks cool for up to three days, while we’ve never tested that feature out – one day at the beach and drinks are always frosty cold.''It’s the perfect item to bring with you for a beach picnic or your typical beach day. Beyond that, a good portable cooler makes for a good investment if you like to go camping, canoeing, or just a day at the park. A well-built cooler like the''Tourit''is durable, waterproof, and comfortable to carry. You can pick it up in two sizes and colors.''Cover up''When packing for a day at the beach make sure you don’t forget a cover up. Not only do they look cute but they will also protect you from the suns harsh rays. Many establishments don’t allow beach goers to wear just a swimsuit so this is where the cover-up is essential. I have this one that''I got on Amazon''for a great price. Men can never go wrong with a classic white t-shirt, plus it shows off your tan.''Shorts and Tank Tops''A few pairs of shorts are always a good idea. I like''jean shorts''since they don’t stain very easily. I like to wear tank tops because they keep me cool and I avoid odd tan-lines.''Flip Flops''I used to live at the beach, so''Rainbow flip flops''are my go-to when it comes to comfortable beach footwear. In 10 years, I’ve had only two pairs of flip-flops, both were Rainbows, and I only had to buy a second pair because my first were stolen in Thailand.''My other favorite, more fashionable\xa0sandals for women at the beach are Plaka.''Plaka sandals''are handwoven women’s sandals with a hard rubber sole that are good to wear anywhere in the summer. All of these sandals are hand-made and water resistant and can really dress up a beach casual look. I have a pair in almost all of their styles!''My''Plaka Palm Leaf sandals''Beach Bag''No matter what you will need a beach bag when heading to the beach. This is to throw in anything from''towels''to books, to sunscreen. Depending on the size of your beach party you may only need one medium sized tube.\xa0For family beach goers I recommend a''large yet durable beach tote like this one.''Beach Towel''One thing that you really can’t go to the beach without is a towel. Everyone needs a good towel to dry off after a swim or lay down in the sand. I am currently loving the new round beach towels like''this one''. \xa0When packing for a family beach trip try''getting a set online''!''Sunhat''If you considering what to pack for a beach resort vacation I would highly recommend picking up a''stylish beach hat!''Sunscreen''Skin cancer is for real! Don’t forget your SPF when traveling to the beach. We recommend ordering some online before leaving the house as you’ll pay high prices for low-quality sunblocks once you’re at your beach destination. We highly recommend getting an''eco friendly sun cream''that does not contain harmful chemicals.''Water Shoes''Water shoes''are great if you will be doing any walking around rocks and cliffs. I’ve been caught a few times without them and my feet have paid dearly for my mistake.''Sunglasses''Make sure to protect your eyes from the sun on your beach trip! I personally can’t even go outside without sunglasses. For everyday wear I like to use my''wooden sunglasses from Treehut''. Plastic reduction makes me feel good!''Water bottle''Traveling to the beach with fresh water in hand is important as it is easy to get dehydrated on the beach. We like to use''stainless steel water bottles''at the beach because they are well insulated and great for the environment. Check out our full list of the''best water bottles here.''A good book''Check out''some of the best sellers''right now and pick up a copy. I like to read on days when I just feel like sunbathing and relaxing. Cameron is pretty impatient so having a book to read on the beach provides some much needed an entertinment.''GoPro''Don’t risk bringing a fancy camera to the beach and getting sand in it. Or even worse, water. We like to throw a''GoPro Hero 5''on our beach packing list since they are waterproof. Just make sure to attach it to a wrist strap so it doesn’t get lost! The Indian Ocean may or may not have swallowed one of our cameras before. You can always consider a''floaty case''to help loss prevention.''Essentials for Family Beach Vacations''Beach Chairs''Personally, I would always rather sit on a chair than with a towel on the sand. If your luggage space permits consider bringing''beach chairs''to the beach for you and your family.''Beach Tent''Beach tents''are great for those that want to enjoy the beach, yet stay out of the sun at the same time!''Kids Toys''If you’re heading to the beach with some little ones then bringing along a few beach toys and beach balls won’t hurt! You can never go wrong with''a set to build some sand castles''.''Floaties''Make sure to buy some floaties for your children if they aren’t strong swimmers. There are some''funny and cute ones on Amazon''sure to put a smile on the children’s faces.''For the Party beach goers''Floatables''Ever since Instagram, funny and chic floatables have become all the rage at the beach. Nowadays you get anything from''Unicorn floaties''to''giant parrots''! They are an absolute essential item on any girls beach packing list!''Extra Speaker''We usually try to go with a''portable speaker''when we go to the beach. This allows us to hook up our phones and play our''favorite travel songs''right from our phones.''Hammock''Travel hammocks''are our way of life when we travel. They are perfect to throw up when you find two palm trees to relax under!''Ecotourism in Africa is big business. Each year safari operators, vendors, and lodges assess how they can continue to improve sustainability. It’s likely one of the few industries that value the environment. As the concern over global warming only increases it’s a relief to find an industry that strives to find''eco-friendly solutions.''Ecotourism in Africa extends beyond installing solar systems and reducing waste but has grown to include community development. Local communities benefit from employment, infrastructure, and education that includes an emphasis on resource management.''If you’ve followed our blog for a while you know''we have a love for safaris''and''the environment''. It makes sense for''lodges in Africa''to focus on preservation and conservation as it is their primary tourist appeal. It’s also a natural fit for a lodge in the middle of a desert or the bush to use solar power as they are miles away from any grid and often have to be self-sufficient.''We’ve stayed in countless lodges and every time we find a new business that is making clear green initiatives we are all smiles. Throw on''your safari clothes'',''safari hat'',''boots'',''pack your bag''and get prepared for the trip of a lifetime. In no particular order, we wanted to share some of our favorite eco lodges we’ve stayed in during our travels.''What makes a great eco-lodge?''Here is what we look for in a good ecolodge:''Community development''Cultural respect''Clear environmental guidelines''Conservation efforts''Education of guests and locals''Recycling programs''Reduction of waste''Green building materials''Use of non-permanent structures''Alternative power sources''Water treatment system''Eco Lodges in Africa''Cheetah Paw Eco Lodge – South\xa0 Africa''Cheetah Paw Eco Lodge was one of the first places we stayed at in Africa, and to this day we talk about how much we loved it. This tiny lodge is located near Hoedspruit just outside of Kruger National Park. We based ourselves here while we''self-drove into the Kruger''for our first African safari.''They used eco-friendly\xa0building materials, practice waste recycling, and the food is supplied by local farmers. \xa0We loved some of the green initiatives taken at Cheetah Paw and it was a good taste of what was to come.''I also really liked affordability of Cheetah Paw. At $250 a night you will get a large tent with a comfortable bed and outdoor shower as well as half board –''that’s a steal in Africa!''Travessia Beach Lodge – Mozambique''I always say if I could live one place in Africa it would be on the''Mozambican Coast''. Travessia Beach Lodge is located about an hour north of Inhambane deep in the palm groves and far from civilization. Travessia is family owned and operated. It is composed of just five lovely casinhas that create a very intimate feeling. Rooms here are all raised structures that are not permanent and hot water is supplied by wood-fired boilers.''The lodge prides itself on hiring locals from the surrounding communities and creating jobs where people need them most. They have done multiple community development initiatives\xa0to help a rural village in the area. That means building a school, donating books, and maintaining the wells that supply valuable water.''All of this is powered by a range of solar panels. The best part is this hideaway is affordable with rooms starting at less than $200 a night!''Read more about our experience at Travessia here!''Gondwana Tented Eco Camp – South Africa''I can still remember the excitement I had when we were planning our safari in the Gondwana Game Reserve near Mossel Bay. This makes it one of the closest game reserves to Cape Town.''What makes Gondwana totally unique is its preservation of the Fynbos, which is the smallest floral kingdom in the world found only in the Cape of Africa. They offer a new safari experience called Eco-Camp. Guests can choose to stay for three or five days and go into the heart of the reserve and track, monitor, and analyze the wildlife and surrounding areas with qualified guides.''This includes water monitoring, game counts, and wattle clearing in a big five reserve. It lifts the veil a little on what goes into game management while still providing a wonderful guest experience. The camp itself is small with only five stilted tents and the main lounge built into the fynbos.''Choosing a tented eco-camp safari is one of those rare experiences you can’t find many places in the world, and for less than $1000 (all inclusive) for five nights I can’t recommend it enough.''Read more about our experience here!''Ila Lodge – Zambia''We got to ride in our first electric Land Cruiser at Ila Lodge, and we even had lunch on the Kafue River surrounded by elephants on Zambia’s first ever electric pontoon! Awesome stuff.''Yep, that was all at Ila Lodge, a surprise hit lodge for us in Zambia. Ila Lodge is operated by Green Safaris and their premise is environmentally conscious travel. They implement a''reduce, reuse, and recycle''strategy and support local communities by teaching them sustainable farming.''Check out why we loved our safari in the''Kafue National Park.''Bwindi Lodge – Uganda''We stayed at Bwindi Lodge while we went''gorilla trekking in Uganda''. The lodge is about a five-minute walk from the entrance to Bwindi Impenetrable National Forest and serves as a buffer zone between the community and the park. Bwindi Lodge is run on solar power and all rainwater is collected for reuse.''Showers are solar heated and most of the lodge is made out of eco-friendly materials. \xa0We really loved the initiative set in place by Volcanoes Safaris who focuses on blending African communities with wildlife so that they can live in harmony with nature. Added points for a beautiful interior design and excellent staff.''Read the full review here''.''Gondwana’s Hakusembe Lodge – Namibia''Hakusembe Lodge on the banks of the Okavango River was one of my favorites of the Gondwana Collection Camps in Namibia. Hakusembe and many of the other Gondwana lodges in Namibia have been awarded high marks for their initiatives. They have established themselves as leaders in the development of ecotourism in Namibia. Steps such as water reuse, re-planting of trees, and proper waste management systems are difficult.''They have also just introduced high powered glass crushers to help with glass waste. The glass is then used it for more building projects. I loved the initiative of the Gondwana Collection ever since we traveled around Namibia with them and stayed in most of their lodges and campsites.''They employ over 600 Namibians, which considering the population of Namibia, is a huge number! They are also luxurious yet incredibly affordable – so yes you can be an average joe-schmoe and stay here!''Check out our Northern Namibia road trip itinerary''.''Lukwe Eco Camp \xa0– Malawi''We hiked three hours up to Livingstonia in the hot African sun and two hours back down in the rain just so we could stay and eat at the Lukwe Eco Camp in Malawi. It was also a great way to get active''despite having a vehicle''that could have climbed a notorious mountain road. Overlooking the stunning Lake Malawi, Lukwe Eco Camp is built around the environment. They run off mountain spring water, use solar energy, and even have composting toilets.''Any trip here has to complete with at least one amazing and healthy meal. Most of their ingredients come right from their permaculture garden and the food is absolutely delicious and affordable. Oh yeah, did we mention their cozy mountain view rooms cost only $40 a night?''Visiting Malawi was a highlight of our African road trip''.''Sindabezi – Zambia''An exclusive camp on a private island in the middle of the Zambezi River? Yes Please! Sindabezi ranks as one of the Fodor’s top 10 eco-lodges in Africa, and after staying here we can see why! The island houses five thatched cottages all open to the Zambezi River.''The island is powered by solar energy and even does the cooking with gas. Along with their sister property, Tongabezi, the wood supplies come from sustainable forests and their sparkling bottle water system saves 20,000 plastic water bottles a year!''Not only is Sindabezi environmentally friendly, but they do all of these while still maintaining complete luxury such as biodegradable bath products.''Read our full take on Tongabezi and Sindabezi here''.''Kigelia Ruaha – \xa0Tanzania''With tents placed peacefully beneath the Kigelia trees and elephants and giraffe as your neighbor, it’s hard to have a bad experience at \xa0Kigelia Ruaha. This camp is what you come to Africa for.''No WiFi, bucket showers under the stars, and campfires every night. Nomad Tanzania properties like Kigelia are committed to giving back to nature and the community. Read more on our safari in''Ruaha National Park here''!''Wolwedans – Namibia''I’ve talked about Wolwedans a few times because it is one of my favorite camps in all of Africa. The Wolwedans Collection is set in among the worlds tallest sand dunes near Sossusvlei and waking up here every morning is a dream.''Wolwedans has consistently scored five flowers by the Namibian EcoAwards, the highest rating you can get. They actively reduce, recycle and reuse.''Wolwedans has a large “Basecamp,” \xa0where all camp water is treated, power generated, and waste managed. They operate a state of the art solar farm that powers all of their four properties that include WiFi. They also operate the only organic farm in the middle of a desert we know.''When we took the comprehensive tour of base camp, we knew we had made the right choice to stay there.''Check out what our five-day safari in the Namib Rand was like''!''Want to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in \xa0Africa:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Read Next:''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Experiencing Wolwedans Dunes Lodge, Boulders Camp, and Private Camp''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''Our journey across Africa: A true African safari''December 18, 2017''10 Safari Bags to Consider for Your Trip to Africa''August 31, 2017''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Natasha''What makes the best travel laptop? This is an overview of the key elements that make a great road computer such as portability, weight, battery life, and hardware.\xa0A lot of laptop reviews get bogged down in the hardware specs like memory and processing power. However, factors like portability, weight, and functionality are important when traveling.''We couldn’t imagine traveling without laptops. While not every traveler may need the best travel laptop there are those of us digital nomads who work on the road. Answering emails, conducting business, editing photos, and maintaining our business cannot be done from our smartphones. It’s not all about''Instagram''and''Facebook''as a blogger!''The right laptop for travel should be light, powerful, and have a long battery life. All of the following laptops are the best options for frequent travelers or anyone that requires a portable device.''Best Travel Laptops''Best Budget Travel Laptops''Acer Chromebook''Samsung Chromebook''Best Ultrabook Travel Laptops''Macbook Pro''Macbook Air''Asus Zenbook UX330UA''Best Convertible Laptops''HP Spectre X360''Microsoft Surface Pro 4''How To Pick A Travel Laptop''Best Travel Laptops''Budget Travel Laptops''These laptops are perfect for travelers in need of a''simple and cheap laptop.''Acer Chromebook R13''If you’re looking to get straight to the point then a''Chromebook is a fantastic option''. The small computers aren’t heavy on processing power, but if you know what you need they will get the job done. These cheaper laptops do not run full operating systems like Windows, Linux, or MAC OS, but a simple one designed around the Chrome web browser. They’re terrific computers for writing, answering emails, and using Google Docs.''However, for many digital nomads and online workers deal with images, video files, and graphic design that require programs like Adobe Photoshop or Premiere it’s not going to cut it. These come with 2GB of ram and only 16 GB of internal storage so don’t expect too much.\xa0 They’re a solid choice if you plan to answer a few emails, edit some word docs, and read''great travel blogs''(like ours!). Build design is just “decent,” but the computer only retails for less than $200!''Acer does manage to make a great value product. The computer has a bright screen, a decent battery, and even an SD card reader which is great for backing up your camera to the cloud! It also features a 720p webcam that is good for video chat back home with apps like Skype or Google Hangouts. It’s pretty impressive given the price that the screen is a touchscreen with a 360 hinge. Thus the computer becomes a tablet perfect for watching a video or flipping through a guidebook. To top it all off the battery on the laptop can last 9-12 hours.''For those not familiar with Chrome it’s one of the best web browsers on the market. We also make full use of the Google apps such as Doc, Sheets, and the calendar as they operate in the cloud and make workflow across multiple devices seamless. If you do opt for a budget-friendly Chromebook for travel I’d recommend picking up a''USB stick''too. External memory is cheap these days and you’ll be able to dump all your photos from the day on a thumb drive to ensure their safekeeping.''Check the prices here!''Samsung Chromebook''Samsung’s Chromebook steals a number of tricks from their top of the line smartphones to develop a solid travel laptop. It’s a great travel laptop and is perfect for the right user. The 4GB model comes with enough RAM to surf the internet, work on a word doc, and play music. If you’re not pushing the computer it’s super snappy and operate smoothly. The screen isn’t going to knock your socks off, but it gets the job done. It does have a surprisingly\xa0good build that is lightweight and contains a long-lasting battery.''It does come with a very limited storage at 16GB, but when combined with Google Drive it won’t hold you back. What this computer excels at is the affordability, it’s under $200!\xa0I would highly recommend this to anyone that is seeking a travel laptop that is affordable, easy to use, and just a bit more than a tablet. Another big plus, if you lose this thing while traveling, drop it, or have stolen you aren’t going to sweat it too much (especially if all your files are saved on Google Drive).''Check the prices here!''Ultrabook Travel Laptops''Top of line laptops for heavy users that care about weight and not price.''MacBook Pro''We’re big fans of''Apple''. If you’re a creative who works with digital media then it’s likely you’ve already considered a Macbook Pro. The computer packs a lot of punch in a small package. We push our Macbooks daily by using resource heavy programs like Lightroom and''Premiere''and they have held up for years. For average users, the portable ultrabook the 13″ model is perfect, but as video editors, we opted for the 15″ Macbook Pro.''Design wise it’s impossible to find a better-looking laptop than the Unibody Macbook laptops. Apple’s unibody design has been around for years now, but it seems a competitor has yet to deliver a comparable product. The operating system is intuitive and fast. While, the “retina screen” on the Macbook pro is probably the best laptop screen on the market at 2500 x 1600px. The 13″ model has a long lasting battery and it’s lightweight at only 3 pounds.''The new Touch Bar, introduced in 2016, across the top of the keyboard and replaces the old key row and is a bit of a hit and miss. It’s not that I don’t like it, but that few 3rd party apps have really taken advantage of the feature.\xa0It allows for fingerprint login, instant access to volume and brightness controls, the''MacOS''version of Siri and special touch features in different software apps. It’s the same size in both the 13-inch and 15-inch models, measuring 2,170 pixels across and 60 pixels high.''The computer comes in two versions – base model and the high end version with a customizable touch bar. The base Macbook Pro is modest in value, and the top of the line Macbook Pro costs a whopping $2,899 for the 13″ model. USB-C ports are the only on the computer which makes for a high end feature. However, it lacks in practicality as it requires several adapter cables for everyday compatibility until all consumer electronics adapt. They even ditched the SD card readers which seems silly for anyone who wants to access photos from their camera, which would be most travelers.''Apple’s touchpad operates better than any other on the market and the massive one on the latest model will be sure to keep anyone happy. I also love the multi gesture movements on OS operating systems. The price tag is high, but keep in mind Apple laptops are extraordinarily good at holding value for reselling.\xa0If you’re looking to go top of the line than the Macbook Pro is the answer.''Check the prices here!''MacBook Air''If you’re an IOS user, but don’t want to shell out the money for a Macbook Pro or carry the weight the MacBook Air is a clear winner. I traveled with this laptop for three years and it’s still running strong. Apple laptops are known for their reliability, longevity, and ease of use all of which can be found with the MacBook Air.\xa0 As with many Mac laptops, it has a fantastic trackpad and keyboard that are responsive and tactile.''It does have some downsides, for the price you could get a robust PC based laptop, like the Asus Zenbook. It’s limited in it’s ability to edit photos and will only frustrate those who work in graphic design or video editing.\xa0On the flipside, it a premium Apple product under $1,000.''You have several options for storage size on the laptop ranging from 128 to 512gb. In my opinion, the Air’s strength lies in it affordability and upgrading the disk drive space is a poor value compared to the more robust Macbook Pro or Asus Zenbook. As a travel laptop the Macbook Air excels at word docs, internet browsing, and the occasional light photo edit, this is no work horse.''Check the prices here!''Asus ZenBook UX330UA''This''powerful ultrabook comes in considerably less''than its closest competitor. The Zenbook is a great laptop that is sleek looking too. It’s a well designed laptop that retails for less than $700.''The model listed here comes with 8GB of memory and a 256 GB solid state drive. That should be more than enough for plenty of tasks that you can throw at a laptop, like photo editing. It provides an exceptional battery life at 9-12 hours.''At only half inch wide it will be sure to fit comfortably in your''carry on backpack''. Don’t worry about the laptop weighing your bag either as it only weighs three pounds.''It has some useful hardware and ports that will be sure to make your life easier on the road. I love that it has a USB-C port, two standard USB ports, an SD cart slot, and a micro HDMI. The micro HDMI will make it a breeze to hook your computer up to any TV screen or projector for presentations or video editing. I find a lot of business hotels these days provide a hard wired HDMI port to connect your laptop to the TV right from the desk, just make sure to''bring a cable''.''It has a 13″‘ HD screen, nice speakers, and fingerprint sensor. The fingerprint sensor will make remembering passwords a breeze. The keyboard and usability receive consistently good reviews from users.''As strong as the computer is, it does come with drawbacks. Just like Macbooks, you can’t upgrade these computers with your own hardware. It would also be great if the USB-C port was capable of running a monitor like the Macbooks thunderbolt ports, but it’s hard to care when the price is so low.''If you’re looking for one of the best travel laptops for value on this list the''Asus Zenbook \xa0UX330UA''would get my vote.''Check the prices here!''Best Convertible Laptops''HP Spectre x360''When I started my initial research on convertible laptops the HP Spectre X360 topped almost every “best travel laptops” list. I spent a while testing out the''HP Spectre X360''and it was easily one of may favorite devices to use. I could easily find myself having a bit of work and play on the laptop.''The HD model has a 1080 HD touchscreen that is bright and beautiful. I found the colors, contrast, and luminance superb and it’s a beautiful device to use. Even those who use the travel laptop for work might find themselves playing a few time wasting games on the computer.''There’s also the option to pick up a 4k model screen.''Granted this will come at a higher price point and will cost a lot of battery life.''The Spectre is also super lightweight at less than 3lbs. This makes it only a little heavier than a tablet, but if you’re looking for performance the X360 packs a punch. I love the feel of this laptop in my hands. The build quality is wonderful and the screen is beautiful.''Check the prices here!''Microsoft Surface Pro''It shouldn’t be too much of a surprise that the''Microsoft Surface Pro 4''makes our list of best convertible travel laptops. It has great value when compared to other convertibles and laptops. Unlike many of its competitors in the convertible market the surface has the workings of a more traditional tablet. However, with all the inner workings and processing power of many laptops.''It’s made for those like to work and play.''The keyboard is detachable and also serves as a cover and stand. Although, we would love it more if they included it in the base price as it currently costs an extra $120! I do love additional features like the''surface pen''that should help those who love to design or even doodle, but again you’ll have to pay that for that.''The Surface Pro is one of the lightest convertibles on the market at 1.7lbs. The ergonomics of not having the base keyboard permanently attached means the laptop/tablet feels great in your hands.''Despite coming in a small package Microsoft has managed to pack a punch. With Kaby Lake CPUs, up to 16gb of RAM, a card reader, multiple USB-A ports, and a 512 SSD. The screen is also impressive at 12.3,” 2376×1874 touch display. Its color representation and contrast are great and will likely make you happy watching a movie or editing a photo in Lightroom.''Compared to previous models Microsoft has continued to increase battery life and with the latest Surface Pro 4, you’ll likely get plenty of operational time before having to recharge.''I’m not a massive fan of the base model as it tends to lack the processing power and at the same price point you can get a cheaper machine that’s just as powerful. However, if you invest in a slightly higher configuration you’ll be pleased with the purchase. A strong consideration of the best travel laptops for those who want small and portable.''Check the prices here!''Quick Ways to Measure a Travel Laptop''We’re big believers that the perfect travel laptop or any product is out there for everybody. There may never be the perfect product out there, but there is the best fit for every traveler.''Price''This is probably the first thing to consider before shopping. I recommend setting a budget and sticking to the plan, you need to save dollars for travel after all! \xa0Generally, you don’t need to spend more than a $1000 on a travel laptop unless you’re planning to regularly work. There are plenty of great options to pursue cheap computers like Chromebook, or mid-range convertibles.''There is, of course, the exception for Apple aficionados who will have to pay a high price for their premium laptops.\xa0If you need some help saving up to buy one of these computers we suggest you implement the''same tactics we use to save for travel''.''Design/Build''Although, we always''travel with a carry on backpack''to store our laptop a good durable shell never hurts. When you’re traveling the design and build quality should be an important consideration. There are dozens of cheap model laptops that are built primarily from plastic and are bulky in design that will be a burden. Generally, you get what you pay for!''If you want a cheap almost disposable laptop than a Chromebook is a great choice. That being said I prefer travel products that last as they are more''eco-friendly''. Natasha and I are both hardcore Apple fans as their products have never let us down and consistently rank as some of the best travel laptops.''Battery''This is one of the most important considerations when it comes to portability. If you have to be connected to a wall all the time it’s not going to cut it as a travel laptop. Batteries are constantly improving, but if I expect to be on the go a lot a great way to save battery life is to avoid high-resolution displays.''Display''Speaking of displays it does matter how you plan to use your device. As stated previously a higher resolution display eats battery life, but for those of us that are content creators, the display can be very important.''Storage''How you plan to use your computer should have some impact on the storage. Generally, computers are moving over to SSD drives as they do not spin. This means they’re more impervious to damage and they operate at much higher speeds leading to better products. If you plan to use a lot of heavy files your computer will need some storage, but if you’re just sending emails and editing spreadsheets/word docs a small storage device like a Chromebook will do just fine.''Operating System''Are you a Mac OS X user, Windows, Chrome, or Linux user? While Windows and Mac are the most popular it all really depends on what feels best for you. I personally love Apple products (and have for seven years now) and I don’t plan on making the switch anytime soon.''Memory''RAM is a quick way to determine the processing power of a machine. RAM is the memory that is designed to handle ongoing tasks. While your storage is where you save photos and files to your computer the RAM runs programs. If you’re editing photos, video, surfing the web, and streaming a video you’re going to need RAM. We edit a lot of photos and video so the best travel laptops for me pack a punch.''Read Next:''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''The Five Best Travel Pillows for Long Haul Flights''The Best Packable Down Jackets to Travel With''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Best Travel Laptops and Convertibles – Don’t Buy The Wrong Computer!''was last modified:''April 23rd, 2018''by''Cameron''Heading to Peru and in need of a Peru packing list? Being a climatically diverse country, thinking about what to pack for Peru always leaves travelers baffled. Depending on where in Peru you’re going and during what season, you might need either nothing, but swimwear and shorts or all of the thermals you can find!''Lima is the capital and the annual average temperature ranges from 12 to 28 degrees. Cusco has a subtropical highland climate with a wet and dry season and cold nights. Iquitos, the gateway to the Amazon, ranges between 21 and 33 degrees year round and Northern Mancora stays a steady 23-27 degrees. And then, if you want to trek in the Andes, you could be looking at mornings and evenings of minus zero degrees at any time of the year. So, unless you’re just going to one place in Peru, you’re going to want to pack layers.''Our Peru Packing List''Clothing Essentials''You’re most probably going to be hiking while you’re in Peru, so''hiking shoes'',''convertible hiking trousers'', and''comfy socks''are a must. The weather isn’t always warm in Peru, so it’s a good idea to bring a''warm jumper''and a''waterproof jacket''too. Check out our list of the great''women’s travel shoes''and''best travel pants for men and women''for ideas.''If you’re visiting Iquitos or other Amazonian areas, a''good quality waterproof jacket''is an essential as it can get quite wet. You’re also going to want''lightweight trousers''and''thin long-sleeved tops''that offer protection against mosquitos but won’t be too hot in the tropical temperatures.''In the cities, like Lima, the capital –''jeans and casual shoes''are a good idea as you may be walking around a lot.''And if you’re visiting the Andes, pack''thermal leggings''and''long sleeved tops'',''warm jackets''and''weatherproof socks''. As conditions that high can be harsh and cold.''Finally, if you’re lounging at the beach, you’ll need not much more than''board shorts'',''swimsuits'',''t shirts'',''a''sarong'', and''sandals (''The World Pursuit''loves Rainbow flip flops'').''Accessories for Peru''If you’re hiking, you’ll want some extras like a''head torch''and maybe a''compass''if you’re going off the beaten track.''If you’re traveling around or doing much hiking, especially in the rainforest areas, consider''dry bags''for your possessions and a''good hiking backpack''for multi day hikes.''Peru isn’t completely unsafe, but pickpocketing and muggings do happen, especially in the big cities. It’s a good idea to invest some money into a few items to keep your belongings safe, such as a''padlock'',''money belt''and''slash-proof bag''.''Electronics for Peru''Don’t forget your''camera''! Peru has a hugely diverse terrain and you’ll definitely be wanting to capture some shots on film. To me, this is an essential item on your Peru packing list.''The electricity in Peru is 220 volt outlets – so you might need a''voltage converter''when traveling to Peru.''The electric sockets vary from place to place, using both flat prongs and round prongs – so depending on what country you’re coming from, you’ll probably want an adapter –''a universal adaptor is always great to have''.''Toiletries for Peru''The sun can be strong everywhere in Peru, so good quality''sunglasses'',''high factor''suncream'',''and''lip balm''are musts.''A good quality''mosquito spray''with DEET is essential in''your toiletry bag''. Malaria is present in some areas of Peru; if you’re visiting at risk areas don’t forget your your toiletry bag. Malaria is present in some areas of Peru; if you’re visiting at risk areas don’t forget your''malaria tablets''.''A general''medicine kit''for hiking is essential. This should include''bandages'',''ankle supports'',''antiseptic wipes'',''anti-inflammatories''What else to pack Peru?''Don’t forget your''yellow fever certificate''– it’s essential if you’re visiting at risk areas in Peru or arriving at the country from other South American, at risk countries.''Finally, if you’re traveling around in Peru you may well end up taking long distance buses. Make sure you’ve got enough to keep yourself occupied on these buses and''eye masks and''earplugs''are a great idea to ensure you can get a good night’s sleep!''About the Author:''Antoine is a Canadian writer at''Traveling Life'', who bases himself out of the Caribbean and travels year round. You can follow him and his travels on''Facebook!''Plan Your Trip to Peru''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Peru:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Water:''I wouldn’t recommend drinking the tap water in Peru. I recommend the''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to save money and the environment.''Read Next:''Five Great Gay Friendly Hotels in Peru''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''10 Of Our Best Travel Tips For Any New Traveler''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''August 23, 2017''The Ultimate Peru Packing List • What to Pack for Peru''August 8, 2017''The Ultimate Peru Packing List • What to Pack for Peru''was last modified:''April 14th, 2018''by''Natasha''The secrets out and we’re headed back to Europe this''winter''! Many people may not think of traveling in the winter, but after a hot''Christmas in Zimbabwe''we couldn’t be more excited to pack our bags for some colder climates. We’ve''placed our safari clothes''in the attic and have a few packable down jackets ready to brave icy conditions.''With a couple of months to prepare we dove head first into winter weather gear and tried out a bunch of winter jackets. Scouring down jacket reviews online is time-consuming and can be a drag. We’ve taken the time out of the equation and hand picked the best down jackets on the market for our future travels. Stay tuned for the launch of our next campaign''following up the success of Hashtag Africa''!''We’re traveling to Finland, Austria, Japan, and''Switzerland''in the winter so we need to make sure we have the right gear to keep us warm. Winter adventures be warned – we’re coming for you! However, we need to make sure our outerwear is packable and can fit in a carry on bag. It’s perfect to throw in a''day bag''and we made use of ours when''traveling around Scottish Highlands''.''Winter wear for travel is about being functional, lightweight, and comfortable. With a limited amount of carry on luggage space and''airlines strict weight allowance'', it’s important to save weight and packing space wherever you can.''Best Packable Down Jackets''Cotopaxi Fuego Light Down Jacket''[Men’s Version''][''Women’s Version]''Natasha just got the Fuego Light and absolutely loves it. First off, style wise, she thinks it’s cute and slimming for women. It’s incredibly lightweight and packs up well making it a great jacket to travel, hike, and camp with.''The secret to it being so lightweight is the 950 fill goose down with Polartec underarm insulation. The Polartec Alpha insulation makes the jacket packable, fast drying, and easy to care for. This nice mix of materials keeps the heat in while still releasing it where you don’t need it (i.e. underarm). Although the jacket is light it is still made out of heavy duty 20D ripstop nylon and elastic binding at the arm cuffs and hem.''Natasha personally loves how well this packs up while still being warm enough to handle winter conditions. If you’re looking for a more heavy duty option from Cotopaxi their regular''Fuego Down Jacket''is made out of 800 fill responsibly sourced goose down and has a hood attached.''Cotopaxi stands behind their “61 years” guarantee for good, which claims their products are good to last for at least 61 years. After testing out this jacket we can definitely attest to that. We also love that Cotopaxi gives back to some of the worlds poorest community improving the health, education, and livelihoods for all.''Patagonia Down Sweater''[''Men’s Version''] [''Women’s Version'']''This was the''first down jacket''Natasha ever bought and it became a staple of her wardrobe. It does come with a higher price tag, but we love the''Patagonia brand''. In addition to being a great sweater the jacket shell is made from 100% recycled polyester and the fill is traceable goose down.''We love the look of this jacket and it does a wonderful job at keeping you warm. There is a lightweight version of the jacket, but it has an even higher price tag and the shell is less durable. However, the lightweight version does compress better due to a 15-D shell. The shell of the down sweater is 20-D and the fill is 800-fill power goose down.''The down does a good job at handling wet conditions due to the DWR treatment it receives. This provides a hydrophobic quality to the down.''The Down Sweater''has a comfortable design and fit that is well suited for city wear and weekend trips. This is Tasha’s jacket of choice. It shouldn’t be much of a surprise that is highly rated in down jacket reviews as well.''I personally love the versatility of it. When combined with an outer shell you’re sure to be warm no matter what the temperature is outside.''Arc’Teryx Cerium LT Hooded Jacket''[Men’s Version]''[Women’s Version]''Arc’Teryx is Canada’s answer to Patagonia in the United States and they sure deliver. The Northern neighbors have brutal winters and they’re very much into winter weather activities with some of the best alpine sports in North America. It’s a pricey brand like their competitor, but they deliver a quality product.''The Cerium''is a great looking lightweight down jacket. A sleek design and an exceptional warmth-to-weight ratio make the Cerium LT a winner. You can wear the jacket as a mid layer or a standalone. With the only drawback being durability in regards to branches or sharp points.''It’s filled with a high-quality 850-fill-power down. The shell is rated 10-D which makes for an\xa0incredibly light outer layer at only 10.2 oz in total weight. If we’re only judging packing power in regards to jackets the Cerium takes the cake.''I love the high tech design feature of composite mapping. Arc’teryx has effectively added a small amount of Coreloft synthetic insulation to areas prone to moisture. The synthetic material is vitalized around the shoulders, collar, cuffs, and most importantly underarms.''Their well loved by outdoor enthusiasts and they put them to the test on a daily basis. Shouldn’t be much of a surprise they have a loyal client base. For the more active travelers, the Cerium jacket would be a solid choice for their winter wear.''Mountain Hardwear Hooded Ghost Whisperer''[Men’s Version]''[Women’s Version]''This lightweight jacket''is one of the best options on the market, and one of my personal favorites. The jacket is lightweight, has a minimalist design and is styled for the active traveler.''Although the jacket is made with a thin 7D ripstop nylon fabric it still effectively maintains body temperatures in low temperatures. The 800-fill power down is treated with Q.Shield moisture-resistant hydrophobic down. Water resistant down combined with Mountain Hardwear’s ripstop nylon does a great job at fighting the elements like wind and light precipitation.''The jacket is the lightest one of this list at 10oz and does so with a great design. \xa0Mountain Hardwear has forgone cinch waists, multiple pockets, wrist straps, and no reinforced areas in an attempt to reduce weight.''While this jacket won’t replace a heavy weight jacket it is exceptional in its ability to compress. Fitting this outerwear in your''carry on luggage''will be a breeze. This jacket like many on this list is best used when layering or for active wear in cold environments. Despite that it is an exceptional jacket for stand alone winter travel gear.''Rab Neutrino Endurance Jacket''[Men’s Version]''[Women’s Version]''This U.K. based company has been creating some exceptional outdoor gear. With almost 8 ounces of 800-fill-hydrophobic-down this jacket is likely the warmest on this list. However, it remains competitive in pricing to other lightweight jackets mentioned.''The shell is made from a 30D Pertex shell that leaves it lighter in weight and offers good weather resistance. The tough shell and 8 ounces of down make this jacket our heaviest pick. So expect it to occupy more space in your luggage.''In mild temperatures, the jackets warmth may be too much especially if you’re an active traveler. However, for those spending time in cold cities and frigid temperatures you’re guaranteed to stay warm.''It’s an exceptionally warm and great piece of winter gear for travelers headed to cold environments.''REI Coop Down Jacket''[Men’s Version]''[''Women’s Version'']''The most affordable jacket on this list. REI has designed a great jacket that is perfect for casual use and cool climates. It’s a down jacket that only costs $100 which is about as inexpensive as they come. When REI first released this down jacket it flew off the shelves and has been in high demand ever since. Its closest competitors in quality come in\xa0at about double the price.''The jacket is incredibly lightweight at only 10.2 ounces and packs up well. Its warmth may be its only downfall, but the 3 ounces of 650-fill-power down will keep you warm in cool climates.''When it comes time to move to the next destination the jacket packs up into the left pocket and occupies minimal space in your luggage.''A nylon shell is lightweight and has some water resistant capabilities. It has a water repellent finish that should handle light rain, snow, and wind.''If you’re looking for an affordable no fuss jacket that will be able handle travel, light winter sports, and cool days then this is a great choice.''Basics Of A Packable Down Jacket''Fit:''The majority of these jackets have a very similar look. In regards to style, you won’t have to lose to much sleep over what option to go with. I choose to focus on fit instead. A jacket that is well fitted will look sleek and streamlined. It will also move well in cold weather activities. Even if you can’t head to an REI to try on their jacket I’d recommend to order and return if the fit doesn’t work for you.''Size:''A distinct advantage of down jackets is the amount of size they occupy in your luggage. The down filler in these jackets allows them to pack down to a reasonable size. A cheap jacket is packed with too many cheap fibers and you will have a tough time fitting in your''carry on luggage''. This is where quality fill materials come into play.''Warmth:''This is one of the greatest strengths of a down jacket. Down insulation is great at expanding and holding onto body heat – effectively keeping you warm. The only problem when it comes to buying jackets is the lack of a clear rating system. This is common place with many similar products. \xa0Body warmth is probably the most important aspect to a winter jacket. When it comes to measuring warmth you can look at two measurements fill power and fill weight.''Fill Power:''There is a measurement in regards to fill power these jackets come in as 500-Fill, 700 fill, 800-fill, and etc. At a baseline you’ll find the more budget friendly jackets with about 500-600 fill power. These jackets are great for running around town or a chilly evening, but when it comes to the hard elements of outdoors sports like mountaineering or skiing they’ll leave you cold.''High end jackets come in at around 800-fill power which seems to be the sweet spot for performance wear. Premium outerwear like this comes with a higher price to keep you warm in the backcountry. Several of our favorite brands like Patagonia,\xa0Arc’teryx, and Mountain Hardwear regularly use this fill level.''Fill Weight:''While fill power refers to the actual quality of the down insulation in a jacket fill weight is the amount. Most jackets will advertise the amount of fill power in ounces. The heavier the weight the warmer the jacket will be. When purchasing you should consider fill weight, fill power, and intended activity of the jacket. If the fill weight is too high it’s likely that in high activity sports your body temperature will overheat.''Weight:''While, you’d think fill weight and total weight would be closely linked this is not necessarily true. Companies use a wide range of materials in outer shells of the jackets and hardware like zippers. We love a jacket that packs good fill weight and remains light in total weight.''Shell Fabric:''The majority of packable down jackets are made with a nylon shell. The exterior holds up well to the elements like wind, rain, and cold. It does have a simple measurement number that refers to the weight of the thread used in production. The metric is referred to as denier. Denier ranges generally from 7D up 40D. 10D is ultralight and reserved for high end jackets. Where as 20D is more standard, but provides a nice blend of toughness and weight.''Comfort:''It could be the warmest jacket ever, but it needs to be able to move with an active body. The design of the jacket should feel natural and not stiff.''Features To Look For In A Jacket''Hood''When determining the style of your new jacket you should consider it’s intended use. Hoods are a great way to stay warm when you wear them. However, when you pull them off your head they tend to pull the neck back allowing the heat your body is generating to escape.''Cinch Waist''The second area you’re most likely to lose heat around is your waist. This is especially true if you’re doing winter sports like skiing, mountaineering, or hiking.''Waterproof''For everyday wear a light weather resistant jacket should do the trick, but if you’re an outdoor enthusiast you’ll likely need a jacket that can fold up to the elements.''Read Next:''The Best Travel Pants To See The World''Zakopane, Poland: What To Do In The Tatras''The Best Carry On Luggage For Your Next Trip''Best Travel Water Bottle To Carry On Your Next Trip''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The Best Packable Down Jackets For Travel – Don’t Freeze This Winter''was last modified:''March 4th, 2018''by''Cameron''We recently brought on a series of guest writers to bring you some informative content from various regions around the world. While we’ve both had short trips to Central America we are novices when it comes to travel information on the region. So, Stephanie Parker from Big World Small Pockets has written this extensive Central America packing list since she has traveled the region extensively.''If you’re headed to Central America, then congratulations, you’re about to visit my favorite region on earth! One of the reasons I love Central America so much is because of its diversity – from Caribbean beaches to volcanic lakes, tropical jungles, and colonial cities, this region packs a mean punch.''However, with this huge range of climates, landscape and things to do, also comes with somewhat of a packing nightmare – how to cater for so many different temperatures and activities with a limited wardrobe?!''Well, here to help you out, is my complete Central America packing list, so that you know you’ll be perfectly ready for anything this amazing part of the world might throw at you.''The Ultimate Central America Packing list''Clothing''Rain Jacket:''You just never know when those tropical storms might hit and when they do, you’ll get drenched pretty quickly! I would recommend putting one''rain jacket''on your\xa0Central America packing list.''Hoodie/Fleece'': Essential for evenings and cooler days up in the highlands and cloud forests, a''good hoodie or fleece''will come in particularly useful for travel in Guatemala and Costa Rica. We also love to bring a''great packable down jacket''.''Thin Long-Sleeved Top:''Ideal for hiking days or traveling on overnight buses when they love to crank that aircon!''Long Jeans:''Great for going out in the evening or wandering around cities when the weather is cooler, a pair of long jeans is something you won’t wear a lot, but will be glad when you do''Thin Cargo Pants:''Any pair of loose-fitting, thin pants will be ideal for hiking, also if you plan to undertake any volunteer work this will come in very handy.''These PrAna pants''are some of''The World Pursuit’s''favorite.''Pair Leggings:''One of my travel essentials and so helpful for exercising while traveling, for extra nightwear or for under a casual dress if you don’t feel comfortable with bare legs. Try out these''Under Armour pants''that are lined with fleece on the inside.''Pair Shorts:''You’re going to need something for those beautiful beach days because Central America has a lot of them''Summer Dress:''Again a good item for beach days or if you want to dress up a bit during the evening, make sure you take a versatile dress, which you can pair with leggings if the weather gets a bit cooler''Sarongs:''You can’t take enough sarongs traveling in my opinion and, as they are so light,''I recommend two''! This way you can use them as a beach towel, shawl or dress.''Singlets/Vests/T-Shirts:''Choose a range of colors that match the trousers /shorts you’ve selected. Try to make one of the tops quick-dri\xa0(''Champion shirts are great''), which will be ideal for when you’re hiking in the humidity.''Bikini / Swimwear:''You’re going to need to something to enjoy that amazing ocean, especially if you want to learn to dive or surf during your time in Central America. When I lived on the''Corn Islands'', I wore almost nothing else!''Shoes''Pair of Hiking Shoes'': Depending on your plans, either hiking boots, hiking shoes or trail runners. Do be aware volcano climbs and jungle treks are some of the best experiences you can have in Central America and you don’t want to miss out. Check out these top''travel shoes for more ideas.''Pair of Flip Flops:''Essential. Basically the national dress for tourists here!''The World Pursuit''swears by''Rainbow flip flops'', they literally last forever!''Pair of Day Shoes:''Either''converse shoes'', pumps, or sneakers are a good option for exploring cities and towns on foot or for putting on when you go out in the evening.''Electronics''Camera, Lens, Memory Card & Charger:''A''GoPro''will be great for capturing the action of Central America, but otherwise a''good mirrorless camera''should give great video and is much lighter than a DSLR.''Headlamp & Spare Batteries'': Power cuts are notorious across Central America so come prepared to fend for yourself.''A good headlamp''is a great idea for traveling anywhere in the world.''Adapter'': You’ll need a US adapter throughout Central America if you want to charge any of your devices. Try a''universal adaptor''if you plan on traveling elsewhere.''Think about bringing these things to Central America…''Day Pack:''Good for hiking and beach days, I recommend a 10-20l bag that you can fit a water bottle, snacks, sarong and your camera in.''Eagle Creek''makes great ones that fold up small. Check out our list of the''best travel daypacks''for more suggestions.''Hiking Backpack:''If you’re planning on going on a few extensive hikes I highly recommend purchasing a''good hiking backpack''before your trip.''Latin America Phrasebook'': Having a little bit of Spanish under your belt will go a long way across Central America and I’ve found a''Spanish phrasebook''to be a great help in this respect. You’ll really engender yourself with the locals and get a much better feel for the culture''Combination Padlock:''A''combination padlock like this one''is very useful for locking up bags if you’re staying in hostels.''Water Bottle with inbuilt filter'': None of the water is potable in Central America and the amount of plastic bottles littering Central America is scary. Go green and invest in a filter water bottle, which will limit your use of plastic and save you money too.''The World Pursuit''travels everywhere with their''Lifestraw Go'', which filters out 99% of bacteria as well.''Sleeping Bag:''If you’re doing any hiking or going remote, this will come in very handy. Also many backpackers on the beach offer hammocks for very cheap rate to sleep in and having a''nice and durable sleeping bag''will save you a fortune.''About the Author:''Stephanie Parker is a travel addict and\xa0creator of the budget travel blog''Big World Small Pockets''.\xa0Never one for staying still, she’s always had to travel cheaply to maintain her nomadic lifestyle … even into her 30’s! Originally from the UK, Stephanie likes nothing more than backpacking the world on a shoestring collecting stories she shares with a smile.''Plan Your Trip to Central America''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read Next:''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''August 23, 2017''The Ultimate Peru Packing List • What to Pack for Peru''August 8, 2017''The Ultimate Central America Packing List''August 3, 2017''The Ultimate Central America Packing List''was last modified:''November 13th, 2017''by''Natasha''What to wear in Italy is one of the first things to consider once you plan the basics of your first trip to the country. Packing can be simple. Generally, Italians are stylish and we recommend dressing casually that way you’re comfortable when hanging out with locals.''Italy is a stylish place, but it’s also a country that leaves much to be explored on foot and seasons vary. There is a huge difference in style and weather between the different regions in Italy, and nailing down what exactly to throw in your suitcase may be daunting.\xa0Some of the best solutions are to keep it simple with clothes and come prepared for a variety of activities and social functions. Staple items in your wardrobe can be mixed and matched to create a variety of outfits.''Italians are known for being fashionistas and we suggest anyone traveling the country take their style seriously too. So, when we’re in Italy we stand at the espresso bar, don’t order cappuccinos afternoon, and dress to kill.''What to Wear\xa0in Italy''Summer In Italy''Dressing well in the summertime isn’t rocket science. We both choose to go for timeless clothing items when traveling around Italy and Europe. I opt for an easy dress with a classic cut in neutral colors. Combine that with a small handbag, black flats, and a nice pair of sunglasses you’ve got the perfect summer outfit. Men have it easy as Cameron loves to wear either chinos or jeans with a classic white T-shirt with an accessory like a nice watch.''Women’s Outfit:''Sunglasses''|''Handbag''|''Black flats''|''Dress''Men’s Outfit:''Chinos''|''Watch''|''Sunglasses''|''Shirt''Winter In Italy''Sticking to classics is always the best way to tackle the winter climates. We like to bring two coats for the winter because we’re active travelers. That means we both bring our''favorite down jacket for hiking or winter activities''. For walking around cities we both like a classic black peacoat, maybe it’s the New Yorker left in us. Other staples like a nice scarf and the right pair of boots can make your outfit and keep you warm.''Women’s Outfit:''Coat''|''Scarf''|''Sweater''|''Boots''Men’s Outfit:''Coat''|''Scarf''|''Sweater''|''Boots''Essentials''Shoes''A comfortable pair of shoes for both men and women are essential when packing your bag. However, I wouldn’t recommend packing those terrible clunky hiking shoes many backpackers bring. Most of the cities in Italy are 100% walking cities, so prepare to work off that pasta!''Cameron like to pack two pairs of shoes depending on the season. The first is a relaxed shoe like''Vans''and the second is a dress shoe that depends on the season. He recommends boots in the fall/winter and dress shoes in the spring/summer. If you plan to hike in the dolomites are Cinque Terra boots are a good idea no matter the season.''I don’t think you can ever go wrong with these''boots''and a pair of skinny jeans. Again, to reiterate a pair of black flats are always great to have in a suitcase. One last tip! Stay away from heels, many Italian towns have cobblestone streets and you don’t want to break an ankle trying to look good.''Small purse''You’re going to Italy! Chances are you will want to buy something and stash it somewhere. Not much of a shopper? You will still want a''nice purse''to keep your valuables safe and together. Men – put your''wallet''in your front pockets when at big tourist sites. Italy is notorious for pickpockets and they love to operate in big crowds and public transport.''A variety of coats''The weather in Italy differs drastically, and freak days can spring out of nowhere. When we were Amalfi Coast we were scheduled to have sunshine for the entire week. Instead, we were met with mostly showers. It didn’t matter to us though, we had''rain jackets''to venture into Positano with! Depending on the season I would make sure to pack''a good winter coat''(yes it gets cold in Italy,) as well as a''stylish peacoat''so you blend in with those stylish Italians.''Sun Hat''It gets sunny in Italy, and unless you’re walking around museums you will be outside most of the day. Make sure to protect your face with a''nice sun hat''. Boys – please don’t get caught in a baseball hat in Italy, you will 100% be pegged for as an American tourist – and not in a good way.''Hair Products''Italy is a pretty stylish place. If you can fit it in your bag I would definitely bring your favorite styling tool. I like putting a little bounce in my air with a''large barrel curling iron.''Clothes to Consider''Activewear''There are many outdoor activities in Italy (hello Cinque Terre), that require some flexible clothes to hike in. So when you’re wondering what to wear in Italy consider packing at least one''active outfit''. If you’re planning on doing a hike in the Dolomites make sure to get a''good hiking backpack.''A dinner outfit''My first trip to Italy I only had backpacker clothes.''I didn’t have one single item that would have looked suitable to go out to dinner in Florence in. Make sure to pack a nice''black dress''for nights out.''Shawl''A''nice shawl''is always a nice option to have to wrap around your body on a cold night while still looking chic.''Extra Items To Bring''Phone''Bring your phone!''Most cafes in Italy''have some sort of WiFi and it’s always nice to pop into these places and catch up on anything you may need. We also use our''iPhone''for maps to get around the city – which you will need in the big ones like meme and Florence.''Camera''Investing in some sort of higher quality camera will most certainly pay off in Italy. It’s one of the most beautiful countries I have ever been to and I can’t imagine if I didn’t have a camera to capture some sort of memories of the Cinque Terre or Sicily. I travel around with my''Fujifilm X-T10''and''200mm telephoto lens'', but I’m also never afraid to take out our tiny and discrete''GoPro''whenever necessary.''Earbuds''Many of the big touristy sites have self-guided tours. Like the Colosseum and Roman Forum, I find it’s always nice to have your own''personal earbuds''to stick into your ear for these tours.''Adapter''Remember that Italy uses both the\xa0\xa0“''Type L ” Italian adapter''and the''Europlug''. Many adapters are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Italy''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Italy:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'', or to feel more at home in Italy we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Best Hotels in Italy:''We’ve got the most drool-worthy list of the best hotels in Italy.''Check it out here''!''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Flights to\xa0Italy:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Italy fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Read Next:''Is Venice Worth Visiting? An Unexpected Experience in Italy''15 Things to Know Before Going To Italy''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''February 2, 2018''What to Wear in Italy All Year Round''was last modified:''February 17th, 2018''by''Natasha''We traveled for one full year across Africa. Across empty''beaches in Mozambique'', dry deserts in Namibia, and the plains of the Serengeti. Dusty days in Masai Mara and Serengeti lead to the most spectacular sunsets as the sun kissed the earth and an explosion of color would burst into the sky.''It felt as if we saw the beginning and end of time everyday in the bush as the sun brought life to the earth.''The miracle of life and the fight for survival plays out everyday in the''heartlands of Africa''. We witnessed the''birth of a baby zebra in Zambia''and the''death of many at the hands of predators''who were themselves fighting for life. It is the''greatest show on earth''.''There is nothing quite like Africa; however, there are many different places to stay while visiting the beautiful continent. We’ve narrowed down these best lodges, camps, and resorts in Africa hand selected and tested by the two of us.''We are not magazine editors or travel agents.''We are two real people with a passion for Africa and who have stayed overnight for at least two days in each of the properties listed. The accommodation ranges from classic safari tents\xa0to beach paradises and eco-friendly lodges. These are the best lodges in Africa for romance, adventure, tranquility, and luxury.''Anvil Bay – Mozambique''Anvil Bay is located in the Maputo Special Reserve and has the most stunning location on the Mozambican coast. If you want to feel like a castaway on your vacation then take a look at this place. The reserve is only a four-hour drive from Maputo. However, to get there you either have to have a 4×4 vehicle or hop on a helicopter.''With only nine thatched casinhas hidden away in the coastal mangrove, it is as intimate as it can get. The star of the show here is the wild coast, as Anvil Bay prides itself as having a minimal environmental impact. Rooms are built on stilts from local materials and the main lounge is two tents situated on the beach.''We stayed here for four days and never saw anyone asides from the lodge staff. If we were to pick a''beach honeymoon''as far away from everyday life as possible, this would be it.''Read more about our experience at Anvil Bay here!''Montusi Mountain Lodge – South Africa''Forget about Johannesburg and Cape Town, the Drakensberg mountain range is a''must see in South Africa.''The Drakensberg mountains are a long range of mountains formed over 200 million years ago and they are absolutely stunning.''We spent a few days hiking and snowboarding in the dramatic mountains before we checked into Montusi Mountain Lodge for some relaxation in the South African bushveld.''Every chalet here is massive and comes complete with its own fireplace and heated flooring. All the patios have breathtaking views of the Drakensberg amphitheater, so you really can’t beat a morning here. I found Montusi to be the perfect mountain retreat for winter in South Africa – cozy, comfortable, and reasonably priced at $250 a night.''Read more about our personal experience in the Drakensberg here!''Tintswalo Atlantic – South Africa''I really didn’t mean what I said about Cape Town previously. The city is spectacular and one of our favorites in the world.''We checked into the Tintswalo Atlantic which is located within''Table Mountain National Park''. It’s the only private lodge inside the park and despite being so close to Cape Town it is secluded. The exclusive lodge is located along the famous Chapmans Peak drive. It’s probably the most stunning location for a property in all of Southern Africa.''The Tintswalo Atlantic is easily one of the most romantic places to stay in the city. Each room is unique and styled after different islands of the world. \xa0Of course, each features a stunning private and views of the sunset over Hout Bay. It’s worth noting that the food served here is also some of the finest that we have had throughout\xa0all of Africa.''The Tintswalo suffered a''devastating fire back in 2015'', but instead of calling it quits the owners decided to rebuild and now it is better than ever.''Read more about the Tintswalo Atlantic here!''Wolwedans Collection – Namibia''When it comes to luxury in Namibia look no further than Wolwedans. They were pioneers in luxury tourism in Namibia and are now one of the most classic lodges in Africa. At its onset, it created the massive NamibRand Nature Reserve claiming back thousands of kilometers back from farmers. The famous collection of camps have been serving clients for decades and have an''impressive guest list''.''The Wolwedans Collection consists of the Dunes Lodge, Private Camp, Dune Camp, and Boulders Lodge. All four of the lodges are scattered across the NamibRand Nature Reserve and all have their own unique style and feel.''Every tent at Wolwedans has spectacular views over the dunes of Namibia, making this our favorite place for coffee in Namibia. We loved everything about Wolwedans, especially their effort towards sustainability. They’re making new efforts towards sustainability. Which includes many of their buildings out of plastic bottles, a full solar power plant, and producing organic food in the desert.''There are a handful of camps and lodges in this list that embody the essence of safari. Wolwedans is classic and timeless.''Find out more about Wolwedans here!''Zambezi Queen – Botswana and Namibia''The Zambezi Queen is not your average lodge, because it comes in the form of a ship on the Chobe River. Guests can call this house boat home for a few days while taking in the views of both\xa0Namibia and the Chobe National Park in Botswana.''“The Queen” is a boutique floating hotel with lovely rooms, a pool, bar, and full dining area. During the day everyone can leave the houseboat to go on a river cruise, bird watch, or fish only to return in the evening to mingle with other guests and enjoy delicious food.''Cameron spent his birthday on the Queen!''Tongabezi Lodge – Zambia''After eating our way around Africa it’s official, Tongabezi Lodge has the best food in all of Africa. Aside from a wonderful chef, the lodge, which is located in Zambia near Livingstone is the probably the most luxurious lodge on the Zambezi River.''Tongabezi has been in operation for over 20 years and it is apparent in their lodge management skills. Everything from the beds to the staff, to the check in process, is top notch. No stone is left unturned and after a long travel day the day we checked in we found a fresh bubble bath with high-end bath oils waiting to be enjoyed.''Rooms here are all unique and they include a number of stunning “houses” that you can book your for your stay. Each villa has large balconies to enjoy the Zambezi. While, a personal valet is sure to make sure your comfortable at all times.''The lodge is highly involved in the community and run their own school called the Tongabezi Trust School and now teach over 200 kids from rural Zambian villages including all the employee’s children.''It shouldn’t be much of a surprise that Tongabezi has been named one of the “100 Best Hotels In The World.”''Check out our experience at Tongabezi!''Kilindi Zanzibar – Zanzibar''If you’re in the market for an adults only, beach paradise lodge on Zanzibar then make sure to check into Kilindi. This Zanzibar hotel is run by the large Elewana Collection and unlike any other lodge we’ve ever stayed.''The pavilions at Kilindi are one of a kind, designed tastefully with minimalistic flair. \xa0Each “room” has three circle pavilions that open up to the tranquility of the Indian ocean. There is the main bedroom, open air bathroom, and then a private lounging deck. In each setting, you are completely at one with the Zanzibar nature.''Each room also comes with a personal valet. Seafood at the resort is sure to wow any foodie. We were served some of the finest seafood we had in all of Africa and the chef was quick to adapt local ingredients to classic dishes.''It’s safe to say that Kilindi Zanzibar is a rare retreat reserved for those who want a truly special experience. The ambiance, seclusion, and attentive staff make this one of the very top resorts to choose from on Zanzibar. We can’t wait to return one day.''Read more about our stay at Kilindi!''Emerson Spice – Zanzibar''Emerson Spice was once an old Merchants House that is now a restored boutique hotel. Set in the middle of Stone Town, and only steps away from Emerson on Hurumzi, all I can say is – this hotel is one of the most unique in the world. Eleven rooms make up the old building and each one is uniquely decorated.''Just stepping into these rooms makes you feel as if you have stepped back a century. Colorful walls, antique furniture, and floor to ceiling curtains surround guests. Small details like period books, handmade local soaps, and towels seal the deal and transport guests back in time.''The Secret Garden restaurant is also hidden away inside this hotel and is one of the best places to have dinner at in Stone Town. Be sure to make reservations – they are well known around the island! It definitely made our cut for one of the''best hotels in Zanzibar.''Cottars 1920’s Camp – Kenya''What if I told you there was a camp in Kenya where you could live out the Colonial days of Africa? Well, Cottars 1920’s Camp on the edge of the famous Masai Mara is that camp.''Anyone obsessed with that era as much as me will absolutely fall in love with Cottars. Decorated out with pith helmets, old hunting trophies, a massive collection of photographs, gramophones, and even a 1940’s Rolls Royce Cottars offers a truly different safari experience.''Not only that but the Masai Mara/Serengeti eco system has some of the best game density we’ve seen in all of Africa.''We spent two weeks between the two parks!''Governors Camp Collection – Kenya''Our other favorite camp in the Masai Mara is Governors Camp. The location of the iconic camp was once the governors of Kenya private safari camp and entertained guests like Teddy Roosevelt. The Governors Camp Collection houses a variety of different lodges around the Masai Mara.''We stayed in their main Governors Camp, which is their biggest camp with 37 tents. Each tent is simply decorated and comfortable. The location is superb in the heart of the Masai Mara with fantastic game density around it.''On two separate occasions, we had elephants and lions roaming around our at night. The elephants even used our tent poles for a nice scratch.''If you are into incredible game sightings and close encounters then Governors Camp should have your name written all over it. They are also one the best companies to take a hot air balloon safari with in the Mara.''Read more about a Mara balloon safari here!''Chinzombo – Zambia''We’ve been asked what the absolute best camp we’ve stayed in has been. While that question is too difficult to answer, the most luxurious lodge is Chinzombo in Zambia’s South Luangwa National Park.''Chinzombo has an amazing location along the Luangwa River so you will likely find hippos and crocs lingering around night and day.''The park itself is famed for its high leopard population along the riverbanks during the dry season. It provides visitors a good chance of spotting the elusive leopard right form their villa.''Each villa has a bathtub, shower, lounge, minibar, WiFi, and a climate controlled king sized bed. The villas deck provides guests a large area for relaxing, take advantage of spa services, and swim in the plunge pool.''The lodge is managed by the highly regarded Norman Carr Safaris who are experts at walking safaris and have some of the best guides in Africa.''Find out why the South Luangwa is awesome!''Ila Lodge – Zambia''We are both incredibly conscious about our footprint when we travel. It’s why we always recommend''eco-friendly products''to travel with. \xa0That’s why we loved our stay at Ila Lodge in the Kafue National Park in Zambia.''Ila Lodge is a brand new eco lodge that hits a home run on luxury and sustainability. We loved the solar powered pontoon boat for cruises on the Kafue River, and their electric Land Rover.''The lodge has nine tents in total all facing the beautiful Kafue River. The rooms are open and allow for a blurred line between nature and your room.''The thatched main structure offers an infinity pool, elevated dining area, lounge, coffee station, full bar, and beautiful fire pit.''After our game drives in the park, we were to come back to the lodge and enjoy romantic top quality meals.''Read about the Kafue National Park in Zambia!''Chiawa and Old Mondoro – Zambia''Chiawa and Old Mondoro are owned and operated by the same family in the Lower Zambezi National Park. I would suggest anyone traveling to Lower Zambezi to try out both camps.''Chiawa is the larger of the two and in some ways slightly more luxurious. The tents are all large and comfortable with an outdoor shower and indoor bathtub and shower. The main lounge area is fit to handle at least twenty guests and features a bar, upstairs lookout, pool, and even a fitness center.''Old Mondoro is the smaller of the two and much more “back to Africa” feeling. At Old Mondoro guests are truly in the heart of the African wilderness – no WiFi, no unnecessary structures, and completely open. Both camps offer excellent guiding, food, and activities in the Lower Zambezi.''Read more about our experience in the Lower Zambezi here!''Little Ruckomechi – Zimbabwe''It was only five minutes after we walked into our room and there were already three elephants meters away from our tent at Little Ruckomechi. Little Ruckomechi, or “Little Ruck” is the sister camp to Ruckomechi Camp in Wilderness’s own private concession in Mana Pools.''Little Ruck has four tents and can only accommodate eight people at camp. This makes the whole feeling of being in Mana Pools much more intimate and relaxed.''We loved the design of the Wilderness Safaris tents and main camp at both Ruckomechi and Little Ruck. They seemed to effortlessly blend safari and the modern touches.''Safari activities are conducted on a private concession within the park so Wilderness guests have the wilderness to themselves.''Go to Mana Pools for yourself and see!''Gorges Lodge – Zimbabwe''Built on the edge of Batoka Gorge, every room at Gorges Lodge has one of the best views we’ve ever seen. The lodges main highlight is its proximity to Victoria Falls. With only a 30 minute drive to the Vic Falls entrance, this is an ideal place to stay when viewing the magnificent falls.''However, there is much more to this area than Vic Falls. Guests here can take a stab at spotting the rare\xa0Verreaux eagle, take a trip to the local communities, or even go white water rafting.''At the end of the day nothing is better than coming back to the lodge while falling asleep to the sound of water flowing beneath them.''Sand Rivers Selous – Tanzania''Tanzania is one of the best countries in the world to go on safari, and I’m not just talking about traveling''to the Serengeti''. Selous Game Reserve is one of the largest game reserves in the world and one of the least visited. We enjoyed a four day Selous safari with Nomad Tanzania.''The Rufiji River serves as the artery to the park and contributes to the stunning natural features of the park. Our safari in the Selous was enchanting.''The eight thatched guest bandas, are set on raised wooden platforms that overlook the river. The rooms are open-fronted, low-key and permit the wilderness to drift into the villas. The sounds of the babbling Rufiji river are ever present while hippos grunt happily along the riverbanks.''Sand Rivers Selous also offers guest the chance to go on game drives, fishing, boat cruises, walking safaris, and fly camping. Fly camping is their signature experience which we recommend for anyone that wants to go''camping in Africa''in comfort.''Read our Guide to the Selous!''Ololo Lodge – Kenya''We arrived at Ololo Lodge not knowing what to expect. The location of the quaint country lodge is on the Southern border of Nairobi National Park. The lodge is owned and operated by a lovely Australian couple who were crazy enough to give lodge management a stab.''They have taken everything they know from their two backgrounds – farming and furniture design – to build Ololo Lodge. The lodge used to be a traditional farmhouse that was restored into comfortable stable rooms, Safari tents, and even a tower suite that all compliment the old colonial countryside theme.''They strive to grow as much as their food as they can from a large organic garden on the property. Which means they serve up some delicious farm to table cuisine.''Even if you are not staying at Ololo you can swing by for a meal on their beautiful property. I would recommend making reservations on weekends as it gets busy.''Nairobi National Park is the perfect safari for those who can’t escape the city.''Kinondo Kwetu – Kenya''We didn’t know much about the coast of Kenya before we got there. We landed in Mombasa after an epic safari in the Masai Mara and made our way to Diani Beach.''Our first stop was Kinondo Kwetu, a small boutique barefoot beach lodge run by a young Swedish couple. The Bohemian lodge is great for both couples and families as there is plenty to do and plenty of places to just relax on this property.''Kinondo Kwetu has not one, but two pools – one for adults and one pool large enough to hold scuba diving lessons. The property has sun beds, a sauna, and various hideaways used for meals.''There’s also a stable onsite to go horseback riding along the beach. As well as kayaks, a slack line, a yoga studio, and fitness center to stay active. It topped our list as one of the''best Diani Beach hotels.''Kigelia Ruaha – Tanzania''Kigelia Camp, like Old Mondoro in Zambia, is another African camp that is back to basics. Located along the dry riverbeds in Ruaha National Park this embodies the classic safari camp.''Coffee on a brisk morning and sundowners around a fire are what await you at Kigelia.''Here each tent is open with a king size bed, a bucket outdoor shower, and bucket sinks. There is no hard electricity here or WiFi. Like mentioned, this is old school safari, but in a great way!''This was our last stop in Africa and it couldn’t have been more fitting. Falling asleep to the sounds of lions grunting and waking up to the sounds of fish eagles calling is exactly what I want out of an African safari.''Our hearts for Africa still lie in a tent at Kigelia, until we return''Want to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read More''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''was last modified:''January 30th, 2018''by''Natasha''Heading to Portugal and wondering what to pack? This Portugal packing list highlights all of the essentials. It includes a few obvious items that you’ll find on all packing lists like underwear (duh!) as well as a few other items you might not have thought to bring.''Tip: Portugal is a long and narrow country, and the weather in the North of the country is often different to the South.''The Algarve'', in the South of Portugal, gets around 300 days of sunshine per year. Porto and the North of Portugal, on the other hand, has a very different climate. During winter, the weather can be damp, gray, and wet. If you’re planning on visiting both the North and South of Portugal, especially during winter, keep this in mind as you’ll need to pack appropriately for both types of weather.''What to Pack for Portugal''A jumper''Although the days are warm in Portugal, the temperature can drop considerably in the evening. While you might feel comfortable wearing a t-shirt during the day, in the evening you’ll be reaching for a jumper. I recommend bringing at least one just to be safe.''bringing at least one just to be safe.''If you’re visiting Portugal during the winter, it’s worth pointing out that the houses are very cold inside. Portuguese houses tend to stay cool during the summer, and most don’t have central heating, so you’ll be thankful for any warm clothes that you have.''Your Passport (and photocopies)''You’ll probably be bringing your passport with you anyway, but did you know that in Portugal it’s a legal requirement to carry ID on you at all times? If you’re not comfortable carrying your passport on you, be sure to make some photocopies and bring them with you instead. It may also be worth getting a''good passport holder''so there isn’t much wear and tear on it.''Plug adaptors''Portugal uses the''Europlug'', and you’ll need an adapter if your gadgets use a different type of plug. If you’re a frequent traveler, it may be worth purchasing a worldwide plug adapter that covers you for future trips in Europe and elsewhere in the world. I would recommend getting one''like the one I have''before you land on\xa0Amazon. The price may be doubled if you show up to Portugal in an outlet emergency.''Smartphone (with travel apps downloaded)''Throughout Europe, you can now use your smartphone to display your boarding pass instead of having to print it off. It’s worth downloading the airline apps (Ryanair, TAP, etc.) in advance as you may not have Wi-Fi on the day that you’re traveling.''Sensible footwear''Portugal is an incredibly hilly country so what you’re wondering what to pack for Portugal good footwear is a must. Both Lisbon and Porto have very steep hills, which can become incredibly slippery when it rains. Most pairs of sneakers have good enough grip to tackle these hills, but it’s something that many people don’t bring with them. The''Merrell Moab Ventilators''are great shoes for men and women while hiking. Ladies can check out our guide to the''best women’s travel shoes.''Sunscreen''Portugal is a warm and sunny country. In summer, temperatures in Lisbon can often reach 40 °C in the summer so it’s important that you put on plenty of sunscreen.''Unfortunately, despite sunscreen being essential in Portugal, sunscreen can be quite expensive to buy here. If you’re planning on visiting, you’re probably better off buying it before you arrive.''The World Pursuit''likes to use''Peak all natural sunscreen.''Items you’ve probably already thought while packing for Portugal''Sunglasses''The sun can be quite bright in Portugal, particularly when it bounces off the whitewashed buildings in the Algarve. You’ll also definitely want these if you’re planning to visit some of the''best beaches in the Algarve.''A good book (or two)''Reading is an essential part of a good trip, in my opinion. If you haven’t already chosen a book, why not read something by a Portuguese author? Two Portuguese authors to look at are''José Saramago''and''Fernando Pessoa''.''Shorts and T-shirts or light dresses''In the summer months, sightseeing can be a sweaty event. Save your nicer clothes for the evening when the weather is that little bit cooler.''Evening wear''You’ll want a few nice dresses or shirts, along with some pairs of trousers, for the evening when you visit Portugal’s many wonderful restaurants and bars.''Underwear & Socks''You can never have too many pairs of underwear or socks when you’re traveling. If I’m sightseeing, I like to be able to change into a fresh pair of both later in the evening.''Flip flops or sandals''Flipflops and sandals are comfortable to wear, especially if you’re wearing a pair of hiking sandals (we love''Teva’s''and''Merrells''). It also means you don’t need to pack as many pairs of socks.''Swimsuit''Portugal, and the Algarve especially, has some wonderful beaches that you cannot afford to miss so be sure to pack your swimsuit. It’s always a nice idea to''pack a sarong''as they pack up well and can serve many different uses.''A light raincoat''If you’re visiting Portugal during the peak summer months, you may not need to bring a raincoat. But, although Portugal can go weeks and even months without it raining, it does rain occasionally. If you have a light raincoat that doesn’t take up much room, it’s worth throwing one in your backpack just in case. I like my''NorthFace rain jacket''because it’s easy to pack up.''Day bag''A day bag is essential for carrying all of your stuff to the beach, or for having with you when you go sightseeing. Eagle Creek makes great ones that''fold up into themselves''! Check out our list of the''best carry-on bags''for more suggestions.''Camera''Portugal is an incredibly beautiful country, and you’ll want to be able to take plenty of photos. If you have a camera, bring it with you. Otherwise, make sure your smartphone has plenty of space. Most of the photos on this website are taken with a''Fujifilm X-T10''. It’s so light making it great to travel around cities like Lisbon with. Check out more of our favorite''travel cameras here!''About the Author:''James writes the travel blog''Portugalist'', a blog that covers his life in Portugal as well as offering advice and tips to those visiting his newly-adopted home. You can follow''Portugalist''on Facebook.''Read Next:''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''The 14 Best Beaches in the Algarve''Where in the world did The World Pursuit travel in 2017?''24 Essential Beach Packing List Items You’ll Want for Vacation''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''November 16, 2017''What to Pack for Portugal • The Ultimate Portugal Packing List''July 29, 2017''What to Pack for Portugal • The Ultimate Portugal Packing List''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''The Selous Game Reserve is located in southern Tanzania and far from the madding crowds of the Serengeti. The''54,600 square kilometer safari area''is Africa’s largest game reserve and\xa0one of the most beautiful wildlife areas in the world. What’s even more surprising\xa0is the park is still undiscovered, so to speak!''The amazing game of the Selous congregates around the numerous sources of water in the reserve, rivers, lakes, pans, and even an inland delta.''The Rufiji River serves as the artery to the park and contributes to the stunning natural features of the park. Our safari in the Selous was enchanting.''The Selous is Africa at it’s finest!''It is not the park for those looking to see thousands of animals, but for those looking to reconnect with the raw wilderness of Africa.''Granted the park was abundant in giraffe and the landscapes were unlike any other park we had been to previously. This is the Africa of old, romantic, stylish, and remote.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Get In Touch With Nature:''When we landed in the Selous we knew it was a special place in Africa. The massive swath of land has remained remote and untamed. To top it all off we were slated to stay at one of the parks oldest and most renowned lodges. When we walked into''Sand Rivers Selous''situated on a magnificent spot along the Rufiji River we knew we were in for a treat.''The lodge feels as it’s been set right into the bank as you step down into the main lounge that looks out over pods of grunting hippos. While, our banda, one of only eight, seemed like a tree house lost in time.''We’ll talk more about why''Sand Rivers is one of our favorite lodges in Africa''later in the post.''Tanzania\xa0is one of the best countries in the world to go on safari. It is here wildlife still reigns supreme. It is a country in which a herd of over one million wildebeest is the number one tourist attraction. A herd that also draws a herd of tourists, but a reserve like the Selous still remains undiscovered.''Only about 10% of the reserve is open to photographic safaris and permanent lodges leaving the rest open to big game hunting. These are hunting operations only open to the rich and it is rugged and wild. Opinions on whether big game hunting is ethical or not remain debatable. However, these hunts are big revenue earners for the park with some hunting permits costing''more than a one hundred thousand dollars''.''If there was one place left in Africa you could find Teddy Roosevelt it’d be the Selous. It is named after his hunting mentor Frederick Courtney Selous, after all.''Our first evening in the Selous we explored the surrounding area in a game viewer. Unlike the smaller and more popular national parks and game reserves the animals of the Selous are dispersed throughout the park and hesitant of vehicles.''We crossed dry river beds and climbed steep terrain littered with rocks. Roads in the Selous are rugged and the few vehicles that do drive around the reserve are free to roam where they please. This is the real Africa here.''Only one animal seemed to be everywhere, the Masai giraffe.''The panache and comedy of a giraffe sticking their head out from behind a bush always puts a smile on our faces. It’s why they’re one of our favorite animals to see on safari.''Selous: the game''The wildlife in the Selous is unique as it is a blend of both Southern and East African species. Animals here are not as charismatic as their counterparts in small parks and game reserves. Lions and leopards are not habituated at birth to vehicles like some of the private game reserves around Africa.''The reserve has some of the largest populations of game in Tanzania with nearly 120,000 buffalo, \xa040,000 hippo, and 4,000 lions. The population of lions is likely the largest in the world.''Not to mention it is home to the planet’s largest population of African wild dogs, Africa’s most successful predator.''When You Want To Visit The Selous:''It is easiest to spot wildlife in the dry season''. During the dry season, animals gather around water points. The decrease in foliage also makes it easier to spot wildlife.''The best time to visit Selous''is June to October which is also the high season. Certain areas around the Rufiji River can get rather crowded. Most of the lodges are closed during the low season in the months of March, April, and May.''The best weather is experienced in June to October with little or no rains, whereas the peak of the worst season sets in March and April.''Where to stay in the Selous: Sand Rivers Selous''The lodge was founded in the 1990s by a legendary guide Richard Bonham. The fantastic camp sits in an amazing spot in the Selous Game Reserve, where the Rufiji River makes a wide curve on its way to the Indian Ocean.''Eight thatched guest bandas, are set on raised wooden platforms that overlook the river. The rooms are open-fronted, low-key and permit the wilderness to drift into the villas. The sounds of the babbling Rufiji river are ever present while hippos grunt happily along the river banks all day and night.''After, nearly three decades the camp has grown and matured. However, none of the camps original charm seems to have been lost.''Sand Rivers Selous also offers guest the chance to go on game drives, fishing, boat cruises, walking safaris, and fly camping. Fly camping is their signature experience which we recommend for anyone that wants to go camping in Africa in comfort.''Sleeping With Hyenas''The most unique way to experience the bush at Sand Rivers Selous is to immerse yourself in it. Their Flycamping experience is a surreal night under the stars. Guest arrive after an evening game drive to find a bed and camp prepared on the banks of one of the reserves many lakes.''When we made our way into camp we found a fully prepared camp with a hot shower, long drop toilet, bar, fire, and our bed under a mosquito net. It didn’t take us long to make our way to the fire with a gin and tonic in hand to relax. All while the staff were busy preparing our candlelit dinner table and fire prepared dinner.''After dinner and a hot bucket shower underneath the stars we settled back down around the fire to listen to the sounds of the bush. A few cracking twigs behind us revealed a curious hyena 15 meters away at our dinner table and grunts let us know that there were hippos only 30 meters ahead of us.''It was only an hour later as we made our way to bed we came face to face with another hyena walking into camp. Close encounters like these is what makes\xa0flycamping so special.''The Fight For The Selous:''In recent years, throughout Africa, the fight is on for what precious wild is left. Poachers have ravaged the elephant population in the park and now the Tanzanian government has announced plans to dam and flood nearly 3% of the park. The''proposed dam would flood Stieglers Gorge''. A wonderful natural feature you can see me fishing in the included video above.''At one point more than half of Tanzania’s elephant population lived here, but that is a statistic that is likely no longer. In 2009 it was estimated that 109,000 elephants lived in Tanzania. Fast forward to''2016, the most recent estimate and''the elephant population in Tanzania is around 51,000 – nearly a 53% drop in a matter of years. The majority of that loss came from the Selous. With a massive amount of land and a small group of rangers to protect the park poaching has been rampant.''In fact, in all of our time in Selous, we saw one elephant. It was a young bull elephant an animal that is usually charismatic. However, upon seeing our game viewer he disappeared fast into the thick bush, terrified of humans. It was a telling moment of the state of elephants in the Selous.''What’s a typical day on safari in the Selous like?''05h30 – Wake up call''06h00 – Light bush breakfast''06h30 – Depart on morning activity. We recommend doing walking safaris in the morning as after about 9:00 temperatures will get too hot to walk.''11h30 – Return from morning activity and get ready for lunch.''12:30 – Siesta time! Now is the perfect time to relax, read a book, or jump in the pool''15h30 – Afternoon tea and coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Usually accompanied with sundowner drinks''19h30 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''22h00 – Sleep! It’s been a long day on safari''Who did we plan this safari with?''Our safari in the''Selous Game Reserve Safari''was handled by Yellow Zebra Safaris. \xa0After doing so much of Africa independently it was a pleasure to work with a professional safari company.''Essential Items To Pack For A Safari In Tanzania''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. In peak dry season there is little to provide shade, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler. Check out our full break down of the''best safari hats here!''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the on my Selous safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''If you’re planning on going on a walking safari, make sure to pack a''good pair of safari boots.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want. We also go in depth on the''best women’s safari clothes!''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''Make sure to get travel insurance before your international trip. We like to use''World\xa0Nomads!''If you want to get decent photos of wildlife on your safari make sure to''grab a camera well suited for your safari.''Read Next:''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''The Best Safari Boots For Bush Walks''Walking Safari in Ruaha National Park''A Complete Guide to the Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania''Kilindi Zanzibar: The Best Zanzibar Honeymoon Resort There Is''Why You Need to Stay on Ushongo Beach in Tanzania''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''A Quick Guide to Tanzania’s Selous Game Reserve''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Cameron''Bali is well known for its culture, food, and shopping that provide every traveler with the perfect holiday. If it’s luxury that you are after then look no further than the beachfront hotels of''Seminyak''. The best Bali Seminyak hotels are located close to highly regarded restaurants and excellent shopping, what more could a luxury traveler want? The spectacular sunset views over the Indian Ocean while you enjoy a cocktail served to you by the pool, will leave you wondering, why didn’t I book for longer! It is incredibly hard to choose which is the best Seminyak beach hotel for you. This can be made a little easier by deciding what sort of hotel suits your style. Do you prefer traditional Bali décor or modern hip styling? Are space and privacy most important to you or do beach clubs and endless cocktails appeal more? This list of luxury Bali Seminyak hotels will help you choose what is best for you, we promise you will have the holiday of a lifetime.''The Best Bali Seminyak Hotels''Alila Seminyak Bali''A chic Seminyak Bali beachfront resort with stunning views, the Alila Bali Seminyak suits every luxury traveler that loves clean, modern lines and perfect service. Gorgeous infinity pools and delicious food make this a top pick when searching for the top Seminyak Beach Resort. Location doesn’t get much better than the Alia Seminyak, it’s close to the Potato Head beach club while the entrance is located on the up and coming Jalan Petitenget. If you have kids don’t despair, they are welcomed with a fabulous kids club and kids menu at the restaurants. But don’t worry, two infinity pools are kept for adults only so you can actually enjoy a nice, quiet holiday too.''Check Prices Now!''W Resort Seminyak''The W Seminyak is a fun hotel that caters for everyone. From food lovers and cocktail drinkers, staying at the W Retreat Seminyak is sure to make your Instagram friends envious. Aim to have your stay over a Sunday so you can enjoy the Sunday brunch at Starfish Bloo restaurant. The only thing to waste away your Sunday afternoon away will be relaxing by the pool before another spectacular Seminyak sunset.''Check Prices Now!''Katamama Bali''If design and sustainability are your passions, you can’t go past the Katamama Hotel Bali. Although not directly on the beachfront, the Katamama still deserves its place on this list due to its luxurious suites, delicious food, and location right next to the famous Potato Head Beach Club. More than 1.5 million hand-pressed Balinese bricks make up the stunning façade of this architectural masterpiece and once you have admired the beautiful surrounds you have easy access to Jalan Petitenget for more delicious food and shopping offerings.''Check Prices Now!''The Oberoi Seminyak''Located right next door to Ku De Ta and the most southern of our Seminyak hotel selections, The Oberoi epitomizes traditional Bali luxury. Spread across 15 acres of beautiful tropical gardens, the grounds also have many Balinese temples making it a perfect spot to witness Bali culture in all its glory. The stunning Bali Seminyak villas and rooms feature traditional thatched roofs whisking you away to an oasis of pure Balinese culture.''Check Prices Now!''The Samaya Seminyak Bali''For the full service, privacy and security experience you can’t go past the luxurious villas of the Samaya Bali Seminyak. If you can tear yourself away from your private villa, you will enjoy a stunning sunset from the highly regarded Breeze restaurant. At the Samaya, you are surrounded by the best food that Seminyak has to offer, including local favorites La Lucciola, Sea Circus and for a fun night out Motel Mexicola.''Check Prices Now!''The Legian Seminyak''The Legian Seminyak is not to be confused with The Legian Beach Hotel. The Legian Seminyak is located next to The Samaya Seminyak and its beachfront suites are breathtaking. Everything is thought of at this luxurious hotel and if privacy and more space is your thing, then The Club at The Legian Bali features spacious and full serviced villas. The grounds are expansive and the service is perfect to make your holiday one to remember.''Check Prices Now!''The Seminyak Beach Resort & Spa''Perhaps the most accessible for travelers that don’t have a huge budget to spend but still want the luxury touches of a Balu Seminyak Hotel then The Seminyak Resort and Spa is for you. This hotel has beautiful grounds with a wide range of different accommodation types. You may not want to leave the stunning beachfront pool where you can sip on cocktails as the sun goes down before venturing next door to Ku De Ta’s gourmet restaurants.''Check Prices Now!''About the Author:''Kate is the Mum behind''Rolling Along With Kids'', a blog that hopes to inspires families to travel to''Bali''with their kids.\xa0\xa0You can find her rolling around with her kids on''Facebook''and''Instagram!''Plan Your Trip to Bali''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Bali:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. \xa0World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''for extra assurance.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to''travel with an actual book!''Read Next:''A Girls Packing List for China in the Summer''September 2, 2017''The 15 Best Places to Visit in October in the World''August 28, 2017''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''August 23, 2017''What to Pack for Your Trekking in Tibet Vacation''August 20, 2017''Here’s the Seven Best Bali Seminyak Hotels to Stay At''was last modified:''July 30th, 2017''by''Natasha''Located in the heart of Tanzania, Ruaha is the ‘other park’ on the Southern circuit. \xa0Ruaha’s relative inaccessibility means it gets far fewer tourists than the Selous and less than any comparable park in the Northern circuit.''The reward of traveling this far into Tanzania?''A wild landscape of baobab studded hills, rocky escarpments, and superb wildlife. Tanzania’s largest National Park is sure to wow any safari goer.''Nearly 10% of Africa’s lion population lives inside the park!''Ruaha safaris have amazing predator concentrations, large herds of elephant and buffalo, and a blend of game from Southern and East Africa.''A Safari In Tanzania’s Biggest Park''We arrived in Ruaha National Park directly from the romantic Selous Game Reserve. When we landed in the\xa0Msembe Airstrip we knew we were in for an amazing four days in Ruaha.''The landscape, the air, the general feeling of being in Tanzania’s largest park was unlike anything we had felt before in Africa. We were truly on safari, without the mass crowds of the''Ngorongoro Crater''or''the Serengeti.''Ruaha National Park is the largest park in Tanzania contrary to what many believe is the Serengeti due to its sheer popularity. The park is approximately\xa020,226 square kilometers in size and is about a two-hour drive West of Iringa. The park is named after the great Ruaha River, which is 475\xa0km long, and one of the main reasons the park is wonderful for game viewing.''During the dry season, animals move to the river in search of water. This makes for excellent game density and viewing. Ruaha is well known for its large elephant population and is a hotspot for birdlife. We have recently got into birding (thanks to the help of''this book''book), and enjoyed catching all the 570 different bird species in the park.''We spent four whole days in the park and saw several prides of lions, large herds of elephant, hyenas, buffalo, ostriches, giraffe, zebra, and the greater and lesser kudu.''The start and end of each day in this park is spectacular. Sunrises and sunsets among iconic baobabs are mesmerizing. We can not think of a more fitting setting to enjoy a sundowner than Ruaha.''Ruaha National Park Fees''Compared to other parks in Tanzania, Ruaha National Park fees are affordable. Ruaha Park fees are for a 24 hour period.''Park Fees are as follows:''Citizens – 5000 Tanzanian Shillings''Residents/Expats – $15 per day''Foreigners – $30 per day''Ruaha National Park Landscape and Game''Before our Ruaha safari we were told to prepare ourselves for baobabs and elephants. Within our first hour in the park that statement was evident. The park has more baobab trees in it than we have seen in all the parks we traveled to combined.''When I asked our guide, Jon, why this was he exclaimed that it was because of the high elevation. The constant sighting of baobab trees makes for a\xa0photogenic and picturesque African safari.''Because of the many rivers, Ruaha National Park has a rich and diverse wildlife population. As far as animals go, Ruaha National Park has''four animals of the big five''.''While they are absent of rhino, the park is the only park that has the lesser kudu species. You can also find rhone, sable, eland, impala, gazelle, reedbuck, hartebeest, and klipspringer antelope here.''The park also has enormous prides of lions, herds of elephant, hyenas, and a healthy leopard and cheetah population. With all the rivers Nile crocodile and hippo are abundant.''While on our walking safari we counted 21 crocodiles in one area of the river – now that’s one place I won’t be going swimming! Although, we never saw wild dogs in Ruaha, we were informed there are over 100 wild dogs in the park, so sightings are common.''When To Visit Ruaha National Park''It is easiest to spot wildlife in the dry season. During the dry season, animals gather around water points. The decrease in foliage makes wildlife viewing easier. The dry season lasts from late June to October with the last rains ending in April.''We visited during the first week of June and although it was tough to spot game from the thick bush, we still had excellent sightings. The effects of the impending dry season were on full display.''Where to Stay in Ruaha National Park?''We called''Nomad Tanzania’s Kigelia Camp''home for four days while we enjoyed our Ruaha safari. Kigelia Camp is a classic safari camp. There are no frills here, but it is comfortable and exactly what you picture for an African safari.''Kigelia Camp is located along a dry river bed beneath Kigelia Africana trees. Each of the six tents is the perfect size for two people to enjoy with comfortable beds and an outdoor seating area.''It’s worth noting that there is also a family tent for children above 12 to enjoy with their parents. Each tent has a flush toilet and a classic outdoor bucket shower. All in an effort to preserve water a precious resource in the park.''Staying in these tents allows guests to connect with the wild. Falling \xa0asleep to the sounds of hyenas and lions in the night is a memory never to be forgotten.''The communal area at Kigelia Camp is intimate with a small lounge for tea and coffee and a fire pit. It was perfect to get to know your fellow safari goers with a round of gin and tonics.''The communal area is where meals are served. We enjoyed light lunches under the canvas tent, and three course dinners al fresco next to the fire. I loved that Kigelia Camp catered to all sorts of diets even though they are located in a remote area of the park.''Kigelia Camp, for us, was the perfect place to enjoy our Tanzanian safari at. It was intimate, comfortable, and most importantly it has everything to offer. It is one of the only camps in Ruaha that is fully licensed for walking safaris and night game drives within the park.''Game drives are standard at all lodges. Our Nomad guide, Jon, was extremely knowledgeable of the bush and wildlife and stuck with us through every night game drive, bush walk, game drive, and bush breakfast making the experience much more personable and enjoyable.''How to get to Ruaha National Park?''When we had our car and were overlanding the continent we contemplated driving to Ruaha National Park from Iringa. It is possible to self-drive into Ruaha National Park.''However, most safari goers will enter by air. The two main airstrips are Msembe and Jongomero. If you plan on staying at the fabulous Kigelia camp then the nearest airstrip would be Msembe. From Msembe airstrip it is about one hour drive through the park to reach Kigelia.''Daily flights operate out of Dar Es Salaam, Arusha, and the Selous with Coastal Aviation. It’s also possible to connect in Dar and travel onwards to Zanzibar or the Serengeti. If you want to fly to Western Tanzania there are flights open on Monday and Thursday.''What’s the typical day on safari in Ruaha like?''05h30 – Wake up call''06h00 – Depart on morning activity. We recommend doing walking safaris in the morning as after about 9:00 temperatures will get too hot to walk.''08h00 – Breakfast somewhere in the bush!''11h30 – Return from morning activity and get ready for lunch.''12:30 – Siesta time! Now is the perfect time to relax''15h30 – Afternoon tea and coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Usually accompanied with sundowner drinks''19h00 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''22h00 – Sleep! It’s been a long day on safari''Yellow Zebra Safaris''Our safari in the''Ruaha National Park Holiday''was handled by Yellow Zebra Safaris. They’re experts and professionals in the safari industry and were named Europe’s Leading Safari Company multiple times by the World Travel Awards. Everything from the moment we landed in Lusaka was handled and we were able to just sit back and relax. After doing so much of Africa independently it was a pleasure to work with a professional safari company.''Essential Items To Pack For A Safari In Tanzania''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. In peak dry season there is little to provide shade, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler. Check out our full break down of the''best safari hats here!''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the on my Ruaha safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''If you’re planning on going on a walking safari, make sure to pack a''good pair of safari boots.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want. We also go in depth on the''best women’s safari clothes!''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights. Or you could try out a''safari backpack.''Make sure to get travel insurance before your international trip. We like to use''World\xa0Nomads!''If you want to get decent photos of wildlife on your safari make sure to''grab a camera well suited for your safari.''Read Next:''A Kafue National Park Guide: Zambia’s Forgotten Park''Mana Pools National Park''A Complete Guide to the Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''10 Fabulous Places to Visit in Zanzibar''Why You Need to Stay on Ushongo Beach in Tanzania''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''Inside Tanzania’s Amazing Ruaha National Park''was last modified:''January 5th, 2018''by''Cameron''Bordering Botswana, Hwange National Park is Zimbabwe’s largest national park and covers an area of 14,600km². Its massive size leads to varying landscape, game, and wild bush. The park moves from desert scrubs on the edge of the Kalahari in the south, to granite hills and woodlands filled with mopane and teak in the North.''One characteristic that will strike all visitors in Hwange is the importance of water. The park’s large population of wildlife is sustained by managed water holes, or pans. \xa0Nearly 100 mammal species call Hwange National Park home. That includes all of the''big five animals'', even the endangered rhinoceros.''The park is easily accessible and full of the highest numbers of animals. These are best spotted in the dry season (August to October) when the wildlife congregates around the shrunken water holes.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Hwange National Park''Our Experience in Hwange''We landed in Hwange National Park after a two-hour flight with Wilderness Air coming from an awesome safari in''Mana Pools National Park'', Zimbabwe. It was a long ride in a small Cessna 206 so were relieved when we landed in the park. Our guide Luke greeted us at the airstrip and took us away to our first camp in Hwange National Park, Little Makalolo.''Little Makalolo is a classic style safari camp. A small main lounge, bar, and dining area with a fire pit as the central feature. We settled right into camp and took some time to ourselves after the long journey. It’s amazing how a shower, a cup of coffee, and the sounds of the bush can revitalize a weary traveler.''Our first evening out was a relaxing game drive. We found ourselves winding through thick bush and deep sandy tracks. The park was starting to dry and out and a few trees had dropped their leaves. However, the vegetation was still thick and the wildlife was dispersed throughout the park.''None of this stopped us from having phenomenal wildlife sightings. It was the kind of safari experience and sightings that only a park like Hwange can deliver. We saw majestic male lions who are decedents of the''famous Cecil the lion'', a pack of nine African wild dogs, cheetahs, hundreds of elephants, kudu, and a side-striped jackal.''It would be tough to compete with the wild dog hunt we saw on day two, but then we moved to Imvelo Safaris. On our first day with Imvelo, our guide surprised us with a bush lunch and an afternoon of sitting in their photographic hide. The hide is exclusive to Imvelo and is essentially a shipping container buried next to a watering hole.''Upon settling in the hide our guide turned on the pump and fresh water started to pour out from in front of the hide. A short while later we had elephants towering over us from a few meters away. It was and is the closest we’ve ever been to such a large herd of elephants.''When is the Best Time to Visit Hwange National Park?''Spotting wildlife in Hwange, like most parks in Africa, is best in the dry season. The dry season in Zimbabwe and Hwange is at its peak from late June – October. The dry season makes it easy to spot animals in the bush as they concentrate around sources of water. Water is a precious resource in Hwange as the large majority of water holes are managed by pumps year round to help maintain the animal population.''December to March is the green season. Rains begin to fall in November and by December most wildlife disperses in the park with increasing foliage providing greater camouflage. There is a brief shoulder season in May before the peak season arrives in June. It is an anomaly in comparison to the rest of Zimbabwe as tourism in the park is in high demand and many of the lodges fill up completely during peak season.''Hwange National Park Fees''The National Park is open all year round. National parks in Zimbabwe are similar to many parks in Southern Africa and are very affordable.''Citizen'': Adult –''$5.00\xa0USD''per day''SADC'': Adult –''$15.00 USD''per day''Non-resident:''Adult –''$20\xa0USD''per day''Private Vehicle Fees''Locally Registered Vehicles''–''$5.00 USD''per day''Foreign Registered Vehicles''–''$10.00 USD''per day''The Landscape in Hwange National Park''Hwange National Park is the largest park in Zimbabwe and one of the largest in Africa. Its name comes from the local chief at the time of its formation in 1929. \xa0The park is located in the Northwest of Zimbabwe and borders Botswana. It is only a one hour drive south from''Victoria Falls''which makes it the perfect safari add on to the falls.''Hwange’s landscape is a combination of Kalahari sand, woodlands, and teak forests. It’s even common for the lodges to use the teak as firewood as no wood is allowed to leave the park. The landscape has wide grass plains fringed by palm trees and acacias. The diverse landscape and abundance of food support large herds of elephant and Cape buffalo. However, in recent years the elephant population appears to be out of control destroying large woodland sections.''Hwange National Park Wildlife''Hwange has an incredible amount of wildlife with over 100 species of mammals and almost 400 bird species. The park contains one of the largest elephant populations in the world and visitors are sure to have more than their fair share of close encounters with the animal.''Hwange National Park is also well known for its predators, with good numbers of lion, leopard, cheetah, and wild dog. We were exceptionally lucky in seeing a wild dog hunt and kill on one of our first days in the park. Other highlights for us included a large coalition of five cheetahs and even a lion kill. Other rare animals that are regularly spotted in the park are the roan and sable antelope.''The Best Places to Stay in Hwange''Wilderness Safaris – Little Makalolo''We stayed with Wilderness Safaris in''Mana Pools National Park''and absolutely fell in love with their camps. We were more than excited to experience their Little Makalolo camp while in Hwange.''Little Makalolo''is special as it was one a few private camps located within Hwange National Park. Wilderness Safaris enjoys a large concession for their sole exclusive use within the national park. It serves well for those looking to disconnect from the modern world and reconnect with the bush.''Little Makalolo, or “Little Mack” is a small camp with only six tents and a private waterhole with an above ground hide. The six tents are connected via a teak walkway.\xa0On the two nights we stayed we saw a side-striped jackal and a hyena on the path, and felt reassured to have guides walking with us at night. The center of the camp is a false mopane tree that provides shade during the day and serves as a dramatic backdrop to the large fire pit.''There’s no WiFi at Little Mack and only small solar lights in the tents. The large tents are built in the shade of large trees, with outer walls to allow the flow of wind and cool cement floors. Each tent has a large en-suite bathroom, with full\xa0plumbing and hot water. The rooms also include indoor and outdoor showers, as well as one honeymoon tent with a bathtub.''While the camp has a plunge pool it was much too cold for us to enjoy, but we’ve told it’s a highlight come September/October when temperatures in Southern Africa skyrocket. The tents are all shaded by a wooded area and it helps keep the tents cool during the day.''All of the tents sit at ground level\xa0nestled down tree lines that look out towards a wonderful waterhole. Guests can sit in camp or the hide at the waterhole and have amazing wildlife sightings. Large herds of buffalo and elephants are known to frequent the waterhole providing guests a show from the tents.''For us, the highlight of Little Makalolo is the central deck and fire pit. On the cool evenings in late May we enjoyed sitting around the fire with a''glass of Amarula''and listening to the sounds of the bush.''Imvelo Safaris''We stayed at two separate lodges with''Imvelo Safaris''. They have a private concession just outside the park and two famous lions referred to as the Bomani Brothers like to hang around the region. They’re a beautiful pair and they are likely the offspring of the famous Cecil the Lion (Cecil and his brother both mated with the mother).''Imvelo Safaris also operates Stofies Hide which is an exceptional place to get photos. The hide is one of the only ones of its stature in Zimbabwe. Imvelo Safaris is responsible for managing the pan as well as many other in the park. They pay to run the pumps and it’s a crucial element in the conservation of the park.''Camelthorn Lodge''Camelthorn is situated in woodlands just south of Ngamo’s famous Plains. The lodge is located outside the park in community lands, but the drive to the main gate takes less than five minutes. The rooms at Camelthorn are some of the largest we have seen for a safari lodge. The large rooms are concrete buildings with massive bathrooms, a fireplace, lounge, and a second story deck. We felt extremely comfortable at Camelthorn and after some time in a tent, it felt nice to be in a more sturdy structure. Meals at Camelthorn are a communal affair and we enjoyed the large bar, communal area, and fire pit at night with our fellow safari goers.''Bomani Tented Lodge''Bomani Tented Lodge is more in line with a traditional safari camp with large tents on a pan. The camp lies in the private Bomani concession. The area is surrounded by large plains that and the camp often sees massive buffalo and elephant herds at the watering hole.''The main lodge\xa0sits on the Bomani pan and consists of a dining room, lounge, and bar, built on a raised viewing platform. Not far from the pan’s edge lies the camps fire pit the perfect place to relax after sundown. The Bomani camp staff were wonderful in preparing us a special candlelit dinner outside our room while listening to the sounds of hyena in the distance.''What’s a typical day on safari in Hwange like?''05h30 – Wake up call''06h00 – Light bush breakfast''06h30 – Depart on morning activity. We recommend doing walking safaris in the morning as after about 9:00 temperatures will get too hot to walk.''11h30 – Return from morning activity and get ready for lunch.''12:30 – Siesta time! Now is the perfect time to relax, read a book, or jump in the pool''15h30 – Afternoon tea and coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Usually accompanied with sundowner drinks''19h30 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''22h00 – Sleep! It’s been a long day on safari''Replicate this Safari''Our''Hwange National Park Safari''was all handled by Yellow Zebra Safaris. They’re experts and professionals in the safari industry and were named Europe’s Leading Safari Company multiple times by the World Travel Awards. Everything from the moment we landed in Lusaka was handled and we were able to just sit back and relax. After doing so much of Africa independently it was a pleasure to work with a professional safari company.''Essential Items To Pack For a Safari in Zimbabwe''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. In peak dry season there is little to provide shade, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler.''Hwange National Park like many parks in Zimbabwe offers''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the on my South Luangwa safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''General Info for Traveling in Zimbabwe''Visas for Americans traveling to Zimbabwe cost $30 USD payable in cash at the border. Visas are good for 30 days. Americans have the cheapest visas while the Canadians and Brits have it the worst at $75 and $55 respectively.''More info on visas here.''As we were traveling between Zambia and Zimbabwe we opted for the recently released KAZA visa that is a dual visa good for both countries, it costs $50.''Having enough USD before you enter is sure to make life easier. If coming from Livingstone there is a Barclays Bank in town that is able to change cash for you. If coming into Kariba, we found an ATM in Siavonga on Lake Kariba (Zambian side). The ATM’s in Zambia dispense Kwacha, so you will have to change that into USD before you enter. I would be hesitant to run out of USD anywhere in Zimbabwe besides Vic Falls, Harare, and Bulawayo.''The three main languages in Zim are\xa0English, Shona, and Ndebele. You will be able to get by fine with English in Zimbabwe.''The local meal in Zimbabwe is''sadza''and is a combination of maize, relish, and meat and it is delicious!''We drove around Zimbabwe and love the people and the country. Read more about''travel in Zimbabwe''!''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''The Only Hwange National Park Guide You Will Need''was last modified:''November 19th, 2017''by''Cameron''Sun-soaked beaches, endless opportunities for adventure and buzzing cities, it’s no surprise that Australia is a haven for backpackers. Every year, vast amounts of travelers, young and old, flock to the land down under to travel the glorious coastline, the colossal outback and snap photos of all the iconic landmarks. Hostels in Australia are some of the cheapest accommodation options going in the country. With kitchen facilities, pools, bars and great social events, the best hostels in Australia will be the setting for your most cherished memories of your time in the country.''Here are my favorite hostels in Australia from each state!''The Best Hostels in Australia''Queensland – Jackaroo Treehouse Mission Beach''Set amongst a gorgeous jungle paradise of Far North Queensland,''Jackaroos Treehouse Mission Beach''is a place of rest, relaxation, and rejuvenation. The hostel is effectively a giant treehouse nestled into a one million-year-old rainforest, and it is dotted with hammocks, open-plan living areas overlooking the balcony and a sun-drenched deck. Staying at Jackaroos is basically everyone’s childhood dream of owning a giant treehouse come true.''Check Prices Here!''Tasmania – Montacute Boutique Bunkhouse''Hobart-based Montacute''is one of Australia’s highest-rated hostels. The hostel is decorated in a quaint boutique design with a fresh color scheme, exposed floorboards, and vintage features. The owners pride themselves on making their guests feel right at home and encourage a sociable, homey atmosphere. They also know what travelers want in a hostel room, and kit each dorm out with quality linen, comfy mattresses, towels and personal lamps, power points and shelves. In the communal room, there’s comfy sofas and a log fire for the cold Tasmanian nights, and a gorgeous deck and garden complete with a BBQ for Aussie summer days!''Check Prices Here!''New South Wales – Arts Factory Backpackers Lodge''As far as unique hostels in Australia go,''Byron Bay’s, The Arts Factory''has to take the crown. Set within the Byron Bay jungle, the Arts Factory is a mecca for any slightly hippy alternative-lifestylers. Workshops – such as yoga, didgeridoo lessons, and drumming – take place daily, and the weekly talent show (which hosts singers and performers you’d pay good money for elsewhere) is one of the most unique''things to do in Byron Bay''. There’s a variety of dorms, private rooms, and even a campsite!''Check Prices Here!''Victoria – The Nunnery, Fitzroy, Melbourne''The Nunnery''is set in an old convent in the quirky''Fitzroy area of Melbourne''. It’s a wonderful historic building and the owners have successfully intertwined a modern charm to the aged buildings. Although the name and the setting seem historic and aged, they certainly know what backpackers want – with free breakfast every day, weekly pub crawls and weekly BBQs for all guests!''Check Prices Here!''South Australia –''Radeka Downunder Underground Motel and Backpacker Inn''It’s only fitting that South Australia’s most unusual town should have a unique hostel to match, and''Radeka Downunder''certainly does that. Coober Pedy locals have taken to the harsh climate of the town by living underground, and Radeka Downunder gives travelers the chance to experience this for their stay in Coober Pedy. It’s not for those who like the luxuries of proper walls and doors – the walls can be paper thin and dorm doors non-existent – but it is an amazing concept and certainly will be one of your more memorable hostels in Australia.''Check Prices Here!''Western Australia – The Old Fire Station''The''Old Fire Station in Fremantle''has got ‘how to be a good hostel’ down to a T. The hostel is incredibly spacious, with a lot of communal space; perfect for both those wanting to party and people who favor chill time. There’s a magical courtyard which is a perfect spot for socializing, as well as a lounge area with Netflix, free computers, and fast WiFi. The staff are friendly and knowledgeable and the dorms clean and spacious. It’s also got one of the most well-equipped hostel kitchens I’ve ever seen!''Check Prices Here!''Northern Territory – Down Under Hostel''The fantastic staff at''Down Under Hostel''know that passion for their location is the key step to creating a hostel with a fantastic atmosphere, and they’re excited about showing guests the best of Darwin. The newly renovated hostel has a mix of chilled and party vibes and, with free Wi-Fi and use of iMacs, free laundry\xa0and powder (a rarity in Australia!), clean and contemporary spaces and the best local information, they’re a great place to stay for any travelers to Darwin.''Check Prices Here!''Plan Your Trip to Australia''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Australia:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Australia fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''Remember that''Australia uses this adaptor.''Get one before you land!''About the Author:''Claire is a British travel blogger on a mission to get to the heart of places by overland adventures. She writes about eco-travel and traveling with purpose, by slow traveling and adventuring overland, on her blog. She’s spent lots of time in the UK, Guatemala, and China and she is currently road tripping through''Australia''. Keep updated with her adventures over on''Claires Footsteps''!''Read Next:''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''The Seven Best Hostels in Australia to Stay At''was last modified:''November 9th, 2017''by''Natasha''Zambia’s Lower Zambezi National Park is an unspoiled wilderness in Africa. Unlike South Africa’s Kruger, Tanzania’s Serengeti, or South Luangwa in Zambia you can have a safari here without ever seeing another tourist.''With an ever-present water source and its inaccessibility, the park has become\xa0a wildlife haven.''Five minutes after landing in the Lower Zambezi we were face to face with a pride of lions devouring a kudu.''Not only is the area teaming with wildlife, but the whole park is stunning. The mighty Zambezi snakes along the Southern edge of the park and to the North rises the towering Zambezi Escarpment.''It feels as if it has been hidden away in time.''In a game drive here visitors will cross a varying landscape from thick mopane forest, dazzling\xa0winterthorn trees, and huge acacias.''What makes the park shine brighter is the wide range of safari activities on offer. You can paddle, walk, cruise, and drive in search of the parks bountiful game.''Where is the Lower Zambezi National Park?''The Lower Zambezi National Park is located about 150 km east of Lusaka and shares a''border with Mozambique''to the east and Zimbabwe to the south.''It is one of Zambia’s premier parks and boasts untouched wilderness. The park lies almost directly opposite''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park''and is only split by the mighty Zambezi River.''(Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!)''How to get to the Lower Zambezi''The best way to get to the Lower Zambezi National Park is via Lusaka. Domestic flights fly in and out of the International Airport. It’s a short 30 minute\xa0bush flight away with Proflight to Jeki airstrip. Guests may also charter a plane into the Kulefu airstrip.''For the more adventurous you can self-drive\xa0into the Lower Zambezi National Park. From Chirundu the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe it takes about two hours by truck to reach the park gate. We suggest self drivers to communicate with their lodges team in advanced. As most lodges can provide their knowledge to best reach them.''We flew in by plane from Lusaka and exited via speedboat to Chirundu on our way to Mana Pools. If you are combining this safari with Mana Pools you will have to get to the Chirundu border post to stamp out of Zambia and into Zimbabwe, and then travel to the entrance of Mana Pools National Park.''Lower Zambezi National Park Entrance Fees''The Lower Zambezi is one of the more affordable National Parks in Africa. Fees are good for 06:00 hours to 18:00 hours – not 24 hours!''Park Fees are as follows:''Citizens – 41.70 Zambian Kwacha per day''Residents – $20 per day''Foreigners – $25 per day''Best Places to Stay in the Lower Zambezi''Old Mondoro''Old Mondoro is one of our favorite lodges in Africa. The lodge sits on a lovely point along the Zambezi River that is frequented by animals. It is intimate, basic, and surrounded by wilderness. The concept of Old Mondoro is simplistic. Although it is a permanent camp it embodies the feeling of a bush camp.''Almost all the structures in camp remain open to the elements and it allows guests to be enveloped by the wild.''Yet at the same time, modern luxuries are supplied. There are hot showers, comfortable beds, fantastic food, and power points to charge electronics. Those lucky enough to stay in here are treated to Africa at its finest.''There are only\xa0four chalets at Old Mondoro and one family unit. The reed and canvas chalets all have an outdoor shower and bathtub. Afternoon siestas can be enjoyed from the comfortable shaded cushioned seating area in the front.''The whole camp feels spacious, intimate and isolated. Its proximity to the river leads to regular visitors such as hippos, buffalo, waterbuck, and elephant.''In the dry season, the camp teems with wildlife. Elephants are the most common visitors as they rummage around the underbrush in search of Ana tree pods.''Our favorite aspect of Old Mondoro is the communal building. This is where guests enjoy breakfast, lunch, afternoon tea, and dinner.''Every morning guests gather around a large fire pit for a classic bush breakfast. At night, dinner is served family style at a table next to the fire underneath the African night sky.''Meal times at Old Mondoro are always an experience to look forward to. Breakfast is “Bush style.” Meaning there are fresh fruits, oatmeal, toast, and eggs to get you going. Lunches are a healthy and light mix of vegetarian, vegan, and meat bites while dinners are indulgent three-course meals.''This camp is all we dream about when it comes to an authentic safari. In one of the most isolated locations of the park, small and intimate, and surrounded by the African wilderness. There is no better way to experience the bush than sitting in this camp.''Chiawa Camp''Chiawa Camp''is Old Mondoro’s sister camp and run by the same family owners. The camp is located about an hour boat ride upstream from Old Mondoro.''Chiawa doesn’t strive away from the luxury. With nine verandas or “tents” the camp is about double the size of Old Mondoro and despite the size, the lodge does not lose its bush feeling.''Each veranda is thoughtfully designed to cater to African luxury. Vintage bathtubs, indoor and outdoor showers, a plethora of comfortable seating, and even internet for those that wish to stay connected on safari. The king-sized beds are draped with mosquito nets and sure to offer guests a good nights sleep.''The main lodge features a second story viewing terrace and a full bar. However, some of the unique features of the camp are two well-placed hides, a swimming pool, and even a fitness center.''Chiawa does a tremendous job ensuring that each guest is meticulously cared for and is comfortable.''Breakfast, lunch, and dinner are scattered around the property and are a fresh blend of delicious Zambian and healthy cuisines. We enjoyed lunch on a river cruise one afternoon on the Zambezi River.''We loved their signature Bedrock Dinner. The Bedrock Dinner is set in a hidden location about 10 minutes from Chiawa under the stars and next to a huge boulder. Guests are surprised one evening arriving at the dinner location after a game drive.''The night is a braai complete with drinks, fireside stories, and delicious array of meats and veggies. Chiawa does this special dinner two times a week and I would highly recommend enjoying at least one dinner out in the bush.''Both Old Mondoro and Chiawa have some of the best guides in the business. We found all the guides here to be professional, knowledgeable, and personable.''There is a wide selection of activities on offer at both camps including day and night game drives, walking safaris, canoe trips, fishing, and river safaris.''With five days in the Lower Zambezi, it’s safe to say we enjoyed each of these activities to the fullest. On one-night game drive we spotted a pack of eight wild dogs and even a porcupine!''I would suggest anyone coming to the Lower Zambezi to try out both camps. Old Mondoro is a lodge that is more down to earth, tucked away into the African wilderness and hidden away from time. Chiawa is the luxury set in the heart of the African bush.''Anabezi''Another camp that is located far away from the modern world, but still on the banks of the Zambezi is''Anabezi''on the lower end of the park.''The name comes from the Ana Tree, which can be found all along the property. Anabezi is one of the largest camps in the Lower Zambezi but is easily one of the most luxurious. The camp caters to the modern traveler who still wants to get lost in the Zambian Bush.''There are 12 spacious tents at Anabezi, two main lodges and bars, and two main pools. We were in for a surprise when we stepped into our tent at Anabezi as this is perhaps one of the biggest tents we have stayed in Africa. Each tent features two twin or double beds, an indoor and outdoor bathroom, indoor and outdoor lounge area, as well as a plunge pool on a raised deck overlooking the Mushika River flood plain.''The deck and plunge pool come in good use during the dry season when temperatures soar and the yellow ana pods fall from the trees attracting all sorts of life.''After we found our way around our new house at Anabezi we made our way for sundowner drinks and dinner at the main lodge. The main lodge has been built around the natural surrounding landscapes and is the ideal place to relax while catching up with other safari goers.''The main lodge is where all meals are served, and staying true to Zambian fashion we enjoyed an excellent three-course meal here under the stars but next to the fire.''Unfortunately, we only had enough time to go out on one game drive with our Anabezi guide, Mwila. However, because the Lower Zambezi is so wonderful we were able to spot feeding lions, a herd of elephants, and mating Impala all during the safari.''Best Time to Visit the Lower Zambezi National Park''Most lodges close during the rainy season (December to March) since the roads become impassable. They usually open back up from April to November.''The dry season is from''June to October''and this is when you will have the best game viewing as the bush has dried up and you can find the wildlife near the river. We visited in May and still had the chance to see wild dogs, plenty of elephants, hippo, buffalo, and lions.''Activities in the Lower Zambezi National Park''In our opinion the very best thing about the Lower Zambezi National Park is not the great wildlife viewing or stunning views – it’s the number of activities you can consume your day with! With five days in the park, we tried every activity on offer, some even a couple of times. The main activities in the Lower Zambezi National Park are:''Day and night game drives:''Obviously in an African national park game drives are the main draw, but what we loved about the Lower Zambezi was the freedom to go on night game drives. Night game drives are not allowed in many national parks in Africa, but we love them! They allow guests to have the chance to see some of the nocturnal animals. Hyenas, porcupines, aardvarks, genets, and pangolins are among some of the creatures you may be able to spot at night. Plus, with night game drives you don’t have to hurry back to your lodge after sunset!''Canoeing:''With most lodging options being situated right on the Zambezi River it’s little wonder why canoeing is an option. It’s great to get out on the water without engines running and feeling the thrill of being so close to hippos and crocs!''Walking Safaris:''Zambia is one of the best places in Africa to go on a walking safari. Along with Zimbabwe, their guides are among some of the best in Africa. \xa0To get to go on a walking safari in the Lower Zambezi is an incredible experience. We were able to get up close to elephants on foot while also learning about the plants, droppings, and insects that contribute to the eco system.''River Safaris:''Sundowner cruises are among my favorite activities to do in Africa. I love being able to have a smooth ride while sipping a gin and tonic listening to the hippos grunt at me. River cruises on the Zambezi are a popular activity to do here.''Fishing:''From late August to November, the Tiger fishing on the Zambezi is exceptional, although fish can be caught throughout the year. There is a strict catch and release policy for any fishing in order to minimize our environmental footprint.''What’s a typical day on safari in the Lower Zambezi like?''05h30 – Wake up call with coffee or tea''06h00 – Light bush breakfast sometimes accompanied with a fire''06h30 – Depart on morning activity. We recommend doing walking safaris in the morning as after about 9:00 temperatures will get too hot to walk.''11h30 – Return from morning activity and get ready for lunch.''12:30 – Siesta time! Now is the perfect time to relax, read a book, or jump in the pool''15h30 – Afternoon tea and coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Usually accompanied with sundowner drinks''19h30 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''What to Pack for a Safari in the Lower Zambezi?''There are a few things that one should pack for a trip to Africa.''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. It gets hot in Africa and you don’t want to find yourself with any burns. Here are some of our''favorite safari hats!''Shemagh'': This is used quite a bit on safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want. Here is a breakdown for''women specific safari clothes.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''Good boots are a must for walking safaris!''If you want to get decent photos of wildlife on your safari make sure to''grab a camera well suited for the trip.''Who to book this with?''While we have traveled extensively on our own an organized safari is much easier, and sometimes even cheaper than doing it on your own. We went on our''Lower Zambezi safari holiday''with Yellow Zebra Safaris. They have been voted Europe’s Leading Safari Company two years in a row and it’s easy to see why. We had a luxurious and carefree safari with them.''General Info for traveling in Zambia''The capital of Zambia is Lusaka and is one of the main entrance points into the country. We flew to Lusaka from Nairobi and stayed at the beautiful''Latitude 15 hotel''before we made way for our safari.''The main currency in Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Although USD is acceptable at most safari lodges. Many places in Zambia do not accept credit card.''Malaria is not prevalent in the Lower Zambezi National Park. However, for piece of mind, you can take the proper\xa0malaria prophylaxis to help protect yourself.''You can read our personal accounts on malaria here.''Check to see if you need a visa to enter Zambia.''Americans can expect to pay $50 for a 30-day visa, or if traveling to Zambia and Zimbabwe they can get a Uni-visa for $50 good for both countries for 30 days. Visas can usually be purchased on arrival although you do have the option to get an''e-visa beforehand.''We found most Zambians to be extremely friendly, with many in the tourism sector being able to speak excellent English.''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Read Next:''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''How to Plan a Safari in Africa''The Ultimate Southern Africa Bucket List''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: African Safari Diary #2''July 30, 2017''The Ultimate Lower Zambezi National Park Guide''was last modified:''December 16th, 2017''by''Natasha''To go on safari is one of life’s greatest experiences.''Those fortunate enough to enjoy the pleasure of spending time in the bush are enchanted by nature’s greatest wildlife spectacle. It is here the circle of life is on full view. Life in Africa is a constant struggle.''It is raw and wild.''Anyone involved with the national parks of Africa fight to protect what wildlife and the land remains. Each park has it’s own merits and drawbacks. While\xa0we would never speak despairingly of anyone working to conserve wildlife there are clear highlights.''What are the highlights and our favorite parks?''Choosing between the fantastic parks of Tanzania, Kenya, Zambia, Botswana, and many other African countries is a difficult task.''After visiting nearly every major national park in Africa these are our favorites. When you''plan your next safari''here are five African parks you should visit before you die.''Masai Mara National Reserve''The Masai Mara is one of the most popular places to go on safari. The wide-open grasslands that make up the Mara ecosystem are pretty synonymous\xa0with Africa.''At one point in time the famous park was more popular than the Serengeti. However, with more''travelers concerned about their safety in Kenya,''the Kenyan National Parks have seen a decline in tourism.''All the more reason to get there now while crowds are low!''It is about a five-hour drive away from Nairobi in the southwestern part of the country and has a border with the Serengeti in Tanzania. The two famous parks share the same ecosystem with little dividing the two parks asides from a stone plaque.''Just like in the Serengeti the''Masai Mara National Reserve''is where you can find the great migration. Every June one million wildebeest come to the Mara to graze and mate. The massive herds are well known for their river crossings when prehistoric crocodiles lurk waiting for their once a year meal.''This was the only park in which we saw all of the big five in just''one''game drive, plus a cheetah and''serval''! If you’re looking for an extraordinary experience we suggest you''check out what a balloon safari.''Lower Zambezi National Park''The''Lower Zambezi National Park''is considered one of the last “true wildernesses” in Southern Africa. The park is directly opposite''Zimbabwe''and the Zambezi River is the dividing line between the two countries.''The mighty river is the focal point of the park as a dizzying number of animals come for a fresh drink of water in the dry season. It makes sitting on the river dry season one of the best places in the whole world to be!''We loved our time in the Lower Zambezi not because of our amazing wild dog sighting, but because of the wide range of activities. Instead of just game drives, visitors can join in on canoe safaris, river cruise, night game drives, bird watching, and even walking safaris. There is enough in this Zambian National Park to stay occupied for at least a whole week (or two!).''Mana Pools National Park''Speaking of Zimbabwe''have you heard of''Mana Pools National Park''? Mana Pools is a UNESCO World Heritage Site directly opposite the Lower Zambezi National Park and is one of the lesser known\xa0(but amazing) national parks in Africa.''The park is all about the BIG GAME. Here you can lay eyes on many of the large bull elephants that enjoy the Zambezi River year round. Or spend time with some of Africa’s most famed predators.''The name “Mana” means “four” in Shona and that’s what the park is named after. The four pools found throughout the park that help feed all the wildlife that call the park home.''We had a wonderful time in Mana Pools because of its tranquility and remoteness. There were few other tourists and it gave the true sense of wilderness, as if we had the whole park to ourselves!''Furthermore, if you’re truly crazy lace up your''safari boots''because Mana Pools is the only park in Africa that allow visitors to walk on their own.''Ruaha National Park''I have to admit the mass crowds that plague the''Serengeti''turns us away. However, this turned out to be a good thing since it brought us to some of Tanzania’s lesser known parks. When we planned our second trip to Tanzania we specifically sought to travel to Southern and Western Tanzania, far from the madding crowd of the''Northern Circuit''.''That’s where the largest national park in the country comes in –''Ruaha National Park''! The park is 20,226 square kilometers (7,809\xa0sq\xa0mi) and is all about the big numbers.''It contains a massive population of elephants and the park’s landscape is littered with baobab trees.\xa0However, the most famous population in Ruaha is its lion population. By some estimates, 10% of world’s wild lion population lives here and visitors are almost guaranteed to spot a few prides.''The game density here is great, and lack the crowds make this one of the best parks in Africa.''Etosha National Park''If you want value in Africa then''Namibia is where you should head.''Park fees are 80 Namibian Dollars ($5) for a day pass into one of the best African National Parks.''For those not familiar with the''pricing in Africa'', this is an absolute steal. Especially when you consider all the game that can be seen in''Etosha National Park.''Etosha National Park is home to four of the big five and on our first day in the park we were able to see white rhino!''Game density is amazing around\xa0the natural and man-made\xa0watering holes, the only source of water for miles.''The Etosha pan is a vast expanse of dry land that covers just about 25% of the whole park. It can even be seen from space! This arid\xa0landscape makes game viewing easy as visitors do not have thick bush obstructing views of the wildlife.''Etosha National Park is a great park to self-drive as the roads are well maintained, the park facilities are decent, and crowds are less than some of the more''well-known parks in Southern Africa''.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in \xa0Africa:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Tours around Africa:''If you’re not much of a driver check out some of these''African tours.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Bag:''We suggest you bring a solid''carry on backpack''for bush flights, long drives, and bus rides. It’s a travel staple sure to help any type of traveler in Africa.''Read Next:''How to Plan a Safari in Africa''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''20 Africa Travel Tips to Help You Prepare''Stop Being Scared To Travel Africa''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''was last modified:''April 8th, 2018''by''Natasha''Carry on luggage isn’t exciting, but it is essential for any travel pro. It took me two years of travel around the world until I decided to ditch the backpack in exchange for a piece of luggage designed for the overhead.''When you travel as much as we do you want the best bag you can find to carry your garments. A lot comes down to finding the perfect sized bag that fits the maximum-allowed carry-on dimensions''Since making the switch to carry on bags we haven’t looked back.''The perfect carry on should be able to easily pack up to a week’s worth of clothes and have a solid build quality. There are three types of luggage styles in regards to carry on. Those are the suitcase,''carry on sized backpack'', and a duffel bag.''We’ve scoured the internet and tried out a number of bags, suitcases, and backpacks to generate this list of the best carry on approved luggage. \xa0That way you get the right piece of luggage and make your next trip a breeze.''Elements Of The Perfect Carry On Luggage''Size:''There are two measurements to look at in regards to size. That is capacity for backpacks and duffel bags and size for the traditional suitcase. A great size for space capacity would be 40L. This is a standard size in backpacks and duffel bags.''The best suitcases have maxed out around 22 inches in length. Both of these sizes will ensure you have as much packing space as possible while fitting overhead requirements. For reference, the standard carry on bag should fit these measurements:''9 in x 14 in x 22 in (22 cm x 35 cm x 56 cm)''including\xa0the wheels and handles''.''Design:''I think there is a lot of nice design changes each type of luggage is seeing these days. Features I love on a traditional suitcase are four wheels, reinforced padding, and divided storage. Four wheels instead of two are amazing useful because you can rotate the bag and roll down an airplane aisle.''One feature that will make most business travelers drool is a large fold out suit compartment offered by our favorite suitcases.We love waterproof canvas materials in duffel bags and straps to throw on your back. While front loading backpacks will make packing and unpacking a breeze.''Material:''You need to make your mind up on hard shell or soft sided bag. We’re big fans of both kinds of luggage for different reasons. One thing is certain though and that is the material should be durable and ideally water resistant. Hard shell cases tend to be more difficult to fit in overhead compartments; however, they’re guaranteed to protect your valuables.''We’re also pretty big''safari nuts''and you can’t bring hard case luggage on a small Cessna plane. So, the material of our bags often depends on where in the world we’re going. For city jaunts and hopping around Europe we go with hard shells, but in developing nations we go for soft sided because the bags look less valuable.''Ergonomics:''How you get the bag from A to B matters. We like a suitcase with a telescopic handle and a side handle for lifting. These are also aspects to look for in a great backpack and duffel bag. Many''travel orientated backpacks''these days have a handle on the side that allows you to carry through the airport or throw in an overhead compartment.''Our Carry-On Luggage Picks''Rolling Suitcase''Away Travel Carry On''We love''this suitcase.''The hard shell outer case ensures all your valuables are well protected. We travel with a lot of electronics that are fragile so we love having a bag that has a tough outer shell. A massive bonus on the electronic front is the built in battery that allows us to charge our electronics via USB.''There are two compartments within the bag, one designed for clothes with a compression system and the other is designed for shoes, toiletries, and where we store our electronics. Included with the bag is a nylon dirty clothes bag to separate clean from dirty and keep your clothes looking fresh. We also love the security of the bag with a built in TSA approved lock. It’s also extremely stylish and looks great when traveling.''[Check the Current Price Here]''Travelpro Platinum Magna 2''This bag checks off every criteria''you could ask for in a flight approved bag. It’s durable yet features soft sides that are weather sealed. A telescopic handle that is strong and locks well is sure to save you any grief. Travelpro offers a tremendous lifetime warranty on the bag and will fix many problems including airline negligence. A feature that will be sure to win over many is the suit fold out storage.''What are the best travel pants?''It’s a simple question we’ve spent a lot of time debating. After years of travel, I’ve had enough pants rip, buttons pop off, and uncomfortable travel days to last me a lifetime. When you travel what you wear is a big deal.''I’ve taken a look at the best travel pants on the market and tried on more than I care to admit.\xa0The best travel pants should be simple, tough, comfortable, and look good. So, pretty much everything you could ask for when it comes to clothing. The majority of peoples’ choice for pants is to go with hiking pants. The problem with that? Hiking pants are not great for cities!\xa0I can not think of an easier way to pick a tourist out of the crowd by seeing a pair of “travel pants” (fanny packs excluded).''There simply aren’t enough companies making travel pants. It’s not that the key elements of a pair of pants that travels well is difficult to find.''What makes the best\xa0travel pants?''There are several key elements that any pair of travel pants should check off.''Comfort:''Say whatever you want about pants, but if they’re not comfortable then they are not great travel pants. A pair of travel pants are something that will be lived out of. They could be the most durable pants in the world, but if they feel like an art canvas I’m probably not going to want to sit in transit\xa0for eight hours in them. The idea behind travel pants is that they’re multi faceted garments. The idea of packing minimally means you need pants that are both comfortable and tough.''Durability:''These pants are meant for everyday travel so they should act accordingly. By the time I’m done with a pair of pants they will have seen everything that can be thrown at them. Our latest adventure involved driving across Africa. My pants had to stand up against, movement, dirt, sand, mud, and still keep me cool.''Material:''The material should be durable, wrinkle resistant, and breathable. Jeans are great, but they tend to overheat when you’re active and they also don’t move well. Most companies seem to opt for nylon or weird fabric blends. I like to opt for organic cotton that has a blend of stretch material.''Style:''This should go without saying, but if you can’t wear the pants out in public it hardly constitutes being the best travel pants. Style is important, especially in some of the hip capital cities around the world.''Best Travel Pants''The North Face Motion Pant''These are the perfect pair of pants for travel. The pants have a nice look to them that feel at home exploring a city. A fabric blend of cotton and sorona a techincal fabric that is made to be water resistant and durable. Made with a synthetic material blend they hold up well on hikes or outdoor activities.\xa0They’re well cut and avoid the traditional trappings of hiking pants being bulky and stiff.''Check the prices here''511 Slim-Fit Welt Chino Pant''When Levi made the''511 cut they made the perfect form pant for men''. These pants are definitely more suited for the city, but my chinos held up well on safari. Despite being slim cut pants I’ve always been comfortable in them and even wear them on''long haul flights''.''These trousers come in a variety of colors and they’re all pretty stylish. I recommend buying pants in darker and earthier tones that won’t show dirt as easily when traveling. My 511’s have the perfect inseam size and sit well on my waist. They’re also super stylish and look great.''Check the prices here''Columbia Sportswear Men’s Global Adventure II Pant''These pants make for some great travel pants'', but they do fall more into the category of hiking pants. However, the straight leg design and security pocket are clear steps towards building a great pair of travel pants.''The qualities of the synthetic material means your pants stay wrinkle free in your luggage and will be quick to dry should you need to wash them in a hotel room. They’re also lightweight, pack well, and do a great job at handling different environments. These pants are great for climates that shift widely between cold and hot. I would recommend wearing them for a''fall destination.''Check the prices here''prAna Women’s Regular Inseam Halle Pant''These are a go to for women’s pants''. The extremely versatile pant is prepared to tackle the city, bush, or mountains with no problems.''A great feature about these pants is its convertible feature, the pants are designed to roll up into capris – perfect for hot days. These lightweight pants also occupy minimal space in your suitcase. We consider these the very best travel pants for women.''Check the prices here''Columbia Sportswear Women’s Saturday Trail Pant''The design of these pants is almost a carbon copy of the prAna pants above. Tasha has tried both these pants and found that the prAna Halle pant fits her better, but she also has short legs. We’d recommend trying both pants out or looking at the color options and going with your preference.''Color options are of greater variety with the''Saturday Trail Pant''. However, you should expect all the same features such as roll up capri, security pocket, and a button fly. These pants are great for traveling since they’re lightweight, look good, and versatile.''Check the prices here''Women’s Patagonia\xa0Fitted Corduroy Pants''These are some of my all time favorite pants. My first pair I literally wore them until the pants disintegrated. That doesn’t mean they’re not a great build quality I just wore the same pair every other day for two years straight – if not more!''The pants are made from organic cotton. What’s great about corduroy is the natural stretch of the textile. You can only buy these pants direct from Patagonia’s website or one of their stores.''Check the prices here''Harem Pants''The majority of pants on this list lean on the side of technical clothing. However, if you’ve been following our blog for a while you’ll know that''Tasha''loves harem pants. They’re probably the most flimsy pair of pants and don’t hold up for a long time.''On the positive side of things they take up no room in your luggage, they’re super comfortable, and a lot more stylish than the majority of pants on this list. Plus they double as pajamas! If you want to know the one pair of pants Tasha always has in her''backpack''or suitcase it is these.''Check the prices here''Read Next:''Best Carry On Backpacks : Pack Smart On Your Next Flight''The Best Packing Cubes for Travel 2018 • Eagle Creek, eBags, and More''Eco Friendly Products to Take on Your Travels''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''Best Travel Pants To See The World – What We Pack in 2018''was last modified:''April 24th, 2018''by''Cameron''During our big trip across Latin America, we noticed quite a stark difference in attitudes towards the gay community. On the one hand, places like Argentina and Uruguay fully embraced us. At the other extreme, however, countries like Chile and Peru were a lot more conservative.''We spent a few months traveling in Peru and found these hotels in Peru to be the most welcoming towards us as a gay couple.''Great Gary Friendly Hotels in Peru''JW Marriott Hotel Lima''Lima is the big capital city of Peru, with a vibrant gay scene focused in the central Miraflores neighborhood. It’s also close to all the main attractions of the city such as the bohemian Barranco neighborhood. The Marriott is also located right on the beach front, so you get some pretty sweet views of the Pacific Ocean. It has its own swimming pool, spa, and two highly rated restaurants. This''gay guide to Lima''will help you plan all your activities in the capital city!''Check Prices Here!''Palacio del Inka in Cusco''Checking into the Palacio del Inka after 4 days trekking the Inca Trail sure feels''gooood!''This is one of Cusco’s finest 5 star hotels. It used to be a sacred Andean temple called''Qoricancha'', which was extremely important to its Inca ancestors.''Today it has been decorated to retain its historical authenticity so it’s more akin to being in a museum rather than in a hotel lobby. It also has its own gym, spa, bar, and restaurant called''Inti Raymi.''Palacio del Inka is located in the centre of Cusco, making it walking distance to all the best restaurants, markets and the few gay friendly bars we found. You can read more in our''gay guide to Cusco''.''Check Prices Now!''Sol y Luna Relais & Châteaux in the Sacred Valley''Sol y Luna is a resort & spa hotel in the Urubamba village, located right in the heart of the Sacred Valley. As a Relais & Châteaux property, it sure knows how to pamper its guests.''It has its own stables, large spa and outdoor pool with Jacuzzi. The spacious casita (small houses) we stayed in had a large bathtub, private terrace, living room area and a cozy fireplace to warm up during those cold Andean nights. The two restaurants serve up delicious gourmet foods, with one of them located on a horse ranch so you can watch the shows while you eat.''We loved their outdoor Jacuzzi most of all. Imagine sitting back relaxing hand in hand with your partner with the backdrop of the Andes mountains.''Check Prices Now!''The Belmond Sanctuary Lodge in Machu Picchu''The reason why we loved this particular Belmond hotel is because it is located just 100 meters from the entrance of Machu Picchu.''When visiting Machu Pichu'', most come by train from Cusco and then have to take a 30 minutes bus ride. These queues for the bus can take around 1 hour or longer during peak times. Staying at the Belmond means you can cut out all this waiting time, enabling you to be the last person to leave the famous ruins in the evening and the first to enter the following morning, also avoiding the crowds.''We also love the Belmond brand because it is a well-known for being gay-friendly, with an entire section on their website dedicated to''LGBT travel''.''Check Prices Now!''Amantica Lodge in Lake Titicaca''When we were planning our trip to Peru, we were close to skipping Lake Titicaca altogether, mainly because of all the bad press it receives about being so touristy.''However, if you avoid the tourist traps, you will discover some of the most beautiful, serene and tranquil places in Peru, such as Amantaní Island. You can have an authentic experience, living within a welcoming community, rich with culture and no foreigners for miles.''Amantica Lodge is located on a remote island on Peru’s famous Lake Titicaca called Amantaní, which is around 3 hours from Puno by boat. As as result, fewer foreigners come here, making it far less touristy and more authentic. It has two exclusive suites offering incredible views over Lake Titicaca with private terraces, fireplace and delicious gourmet food using local ingredients like alpaca, fish, and quinoa. A unique experience definitely worth checking out and we definitely felt welcome as a gay couple.''Check Prices Now!''Plan Your Trip to Peru''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Make sure''to read our''Peru packing list''before heading to the country''Accommodation:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Peru:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Water:''I wouldn’t recommend drinking the tap water in Peru. I recommend the''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to save money and the environment.''About the Author:''Nomadic Boys are gay couple Stefan and Sebastien, who quit their lives and jobs in London in 2014 and have been traveling around the world since. Nomadic Boys is their travel blog where they record their adventures from the different gay scenes they encounter around the world. Follow their adventures on''Instagram''and''Facebook!''Five Great Gay Friendly Hotels in Peru''was last modified:''August 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''Let’s face it – long flights and international travel sucks!''If you’re stuck on a plane for an extended period of time it could leave you tired, dehydrated, uncomfortable, and even hungry. There are things that you can do to cope with a long haul flight on the way to your next international destination. The long haul flight essentials listed below are sure to help you enjoy smooth sailing while in flight.''Don’t fear the distance between the departure and arrival signs anymore, come to the airport prepared with these fundamental travel products.''It’s time to fly smart.''There’s a number of things we like to use and wear in flight to make sure we’re comfortable. Our last flights took us 30+ hours to get from Ruaha National Park in Tanzania to New York, and then another 10 hours of layovers and flights to get to our homes. If we''wore safari clothes''to the airport we would have been in for a miserable experience. We not only had to cross the Indian Ocean to Dubai, but it was followed with a transatlantic flight to New York. This is why we each have a long haul flight outfit we rely on.''48+ \xa0hours later Tasha considers it one of her worst travel days.''That day would have been awful if we didn’t have the right items with us. What you take in your hand luggage for a long haul flight can make or break your trip. For your next trip we suggest throwing the following into your carry-on bag.''Long Haul Flight Essentials''Water Bottle''Dehydration is one of the most common challenges that frequent flyers traveling a long distance will face. It’s very easy to get dehydrated which compounds the effects of jet-lag. We both like to carry a''great travel water bottle''with us on flights. We suggest checking out the''Klean Kanteen''. A water bottle also helps reduce plastic waste instead of using the disposable plastic cups airlines like to use on their flights. If you need a refill simply ask the flight attendant to fill your water bottle back up. Another great flight tip is to pick an aisle seat that way you can make frequent bathroom trips.''Skin Care''When you’re on a long flight you’re subjected to stale air and stress. This has a negative impact on your skin. We both travel with face lotion to keep our skin fresh and hydrated. I like to take bathroom breaks wash my hands and apply some lotion to my face. You’d be surprised at how much a small bottle of lotion will make you feel. For men I like to''carry this product''by Rugged & Dapper. Tasha’s favorite face lotion for women on lengthy flights is''this lotion by Foxbrim''. Tasha also likes to travel with''face wipes''to clean the oil off of her face, I may be guilty of stealing one or two!''Headphones''Almost all international flights have entertainment systems on board, but the headphones are often lackluster. It’s best to travel with a decent pair of noise canceling headphones to save your ears. They’re also great for entertainment with long layovers. These''headphones by Sennheiser''may not be the best in the pack, but they’re affordable and will sound great to the average ear.''Travel Pillow''A great travel pillow and blindfold will help you get some much needed shut eye. Most people travel in economy so a comfy pillow can go a long way. If you’re looking to find one we suggest reading our''best travel pillow''post. If we were to pick one travel pillow we’d suggest going with the''J-Pillow''. Do yourself a favor and grab a pillow so you can catch some shut eye mid-flight.''A Good Book''Not everyone feels the need to carry a book. Screens tend to put our brains out of whack when it comes to sleep so we like to read on flights before we try to grab some shut eye. If you’re looking for some books to read check out these''books about Africa''.''Another great option is to grab some magazines in the airport before your flight, or even give the''in flight magazines''a read. \xa0It’s all about giving your eyes a break from the screen time.''Comfortable Clothes''What are our go to long haul flight outfits? Tasha suggests for women wearing some''comfortable leggings'',''a light v-neck,''trainers'',''cardigan'', and light scarf. When it comes to what men wear on a long flight I suggest''501 jeans'',''v neck'',''Vans'', and a''sweater''. Either way you look at it wearing comfortable clothes is essential on your long haul flight.''Oral Care''This is a principle item that we have to carry on any long flight. I always make sure there is dental floss, a toothbrush, toothpaste, and chapstick in my''carry on backpack''. Keeping your teeth and mouth cleans means you’ll stay comfortable. Bad oral health can lead to sores and chapped lips making anyone uncomfortable.''Powerbank''I love traveling with a power bank to make sure my phone never dies. The majority of the time I don’t need to use it on long flights as some of the nicer airlines provide entertainment systems with USB ports! We also make sure to find a charging point during layovers, but getting to a new city without your hotel reservations and map can be a major pain in the ass. I recommend purchasing''this power bank''because it’s a great value with solid reviews.''Read Next:''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''was last modified:''July 27th, 2017''by''Cameron''Mana Pools National Park often felt like more of a myth than reality to us.''We heard the park referenced many times and knew that it was a fact that those fortunate enough to make it to the park were rewarded with an amazing safari. The UNESCO World Heritage Site is famed for its protected wilderness.''Mana Pools is remote and delivers a true sense of being in the wild.''It’s widely considered one of Zimbabwe’s finest parks and there is little mystery as to why. The African Park is renowned for its position on the Zambezi River, massive elephants, and healthy lion population. \xa0It occupies around 2,200 sq km of land and is surrounded by safari concessions that act as a successful buffer between man and the wilderness.''Mana Pools is Africa at it’s finest.''Mana Pools National Park''Our Experience In Mana Pools''Our journey began 80km up the Zambezi River from Mana Pools. The mode of transportation to this remote park was a fiberglass Canadian canoe. Canoeing down the mighty Zambezi is no small feat.''The famous river is filled with crocodiles and hippos, by some estimates, there is one crocodile for every 10 sq meters!''Paddling down the river was both relaxing, terrifying, and invigorating. One minute we’d be paddling down a beautiful channel and the next we were face to face with a grumpy hippo. After surviving the daunting canoe safari we arrived in Mana Pools. Here we stayed at our first''Wilderness Safaris''properties Little Ruckomechi & Ruckomechi.''Upon arrival, we had Little Ruckomechi all to ourselves. It was intimate and after three nights of camping and showering in the middle of the river we were happy to spend some time in the luxurious camp by ourselves.''While staying in Mana Pools we were overwhelmed by the sense of wilderness. It seems to be a park lost in time. On game drives, we would drive over varied terrain only to catch a glimpse of eland moving through the bush or a waterbuck leaping over a fallen tree. And it was only five minutes after checking into camp that we had a herd of elephants right outside out tent.''The elephants of Mana Pools are abundant and they’re impossible to miss. They are ever present in the camps of Mana Pools. We often found an elephant comfortably walking over decks and munching on the trees around our tent. Some of our closest experiences with these mesmerizing giants came about in this park.''Their presence in camp was palpable and I spent much of my time with those that ambled into camp. It is apparent that they are aware of the camp and feel comfortable at all times with the guests and staff.\xa0This made for a humbling safari in a stunning part of the world.''Mana Pools Wildlife''Mana Pools National Park is home to many of the standard large wildlife throughout Africa. Four of the''“Big Five,” animals''call the park home, which excludes the Rhino. As mentioned, elephants are abundant and often frequent the safari lodges. Our lodge, Ruckomechi, had some very curious elephants who interrupted meals on the back deck to take a sample from the lunch buffet. Other park favorites include lions, leopards, and a few packs of African wild dogs.''There are a few notable animals that are absent from the park due to the terrain. Giraffe and Wildebeest are absent from the park and there is a debate as to why these two animals have never made it into the Zambezi Valley, but it has been speculated that they cannot make it over the Zambezi Escarpment.''The birdlife in Mana Pools will make any birder jump with joy. Highlights included the African skimmer, Pel’s fishing owl, white-backed night heron, collared palm thrush and Carmine bee-eater.''Mana Pools Landscape''The 2,500 sq km park sits on the banks of the Zambezi offering view access to islands, sandbanks, and pools. Although, the park is limited in size it is encompassed by safari areas and concessions that amount to around 10,500 sq km of unfenced wilderness.''The Zambezi River is the focal point of the park and wildlife can be found in abundance along its banks. Hippos and crocodiles can be seen just about everywhere and a wide variety of aquatic birds are regulars.''The park derives its name from four permanent pools. Mana means “four” in Shona, the local dialect and major language of Zimbabwe. The pools act as permanent sources of water in the park as they are fed by the Zambezi water table. The largest, “Long Pool,” is around six kilometers long and stays filled year round making it a wildlife hotspot in the dry season.''The park has varied terrain of open plains and forests of mahogany, wild figs, ebonies, and baobabs. The large woodland areas make for a magical feel as the thick canopy just out of reach of elephants filters the light over open plains.''Canoe Safaris on the Zambezi''The mighty Zambezi is the fourth largest river in Africa and cuts through six countries on its way to the Indian Ocean. There are many national parks and safari concessions that stake their claim along this famous river. However, the Zambezi Valley is unique in its large wilderness area as the Zambezi divides both the Lower Zambezi and Mana Pools national parks. This large wilderness creates a biodiversity hotspot.''That’s why canoe safaris are a popular day activity for lodges along the Zambezi River. For the more adventurous there is the option to take a multi-day canoe trip down the river. We were fortunate enough to experience this one of a kind trip with the experts at''Natureways Safaris''.''Paddling down the Zambezi River is a unique safari experience you can’t find throughout Africa. We’re not even sure of where else in the world you can do this. Canoeing down the Zambezi is tranquil and touches on the roots of being an explorer back in the day.''What makes these canoe safaris so unique are that they are entirely self-sufficient. There is no support team- just the guest, guides, dangerous wildlife, and an ancient river. \xa0The guides navigate a maze of sandbanks, hippos, and islands crossing back and forth between Zambia and Zimbabwe. All while the guests view wildlife from the safety of their canoe. A common sight along the banks of the river are elephants as they cross between parks and enjoy the soft grass of the islands.''The Tamarind Canoe Safari is the most popular canoe safari route to take on the Zambezi. It consists of four days of canoeing with three nights of camping. The safari begins in the border town of''Chirundu''and ends in Mana Pools National Park. It’s an unconventional way to arrive at a national park in Africa, and one surely to be remembered. The safari covers roughly 75 km and is never taxing with a leisurely pace.''Each day on the canoe safari starts with coffee and tea while packing down camp. You paddle for a few hours before making a stop for breakfast or you can opt to knock out the majority of paddling and have a brunch. After a nice siesta, you finish up the day in warm afternoon light before setting up camp on one of the many islands. Camping on the islands of the Zambezi leaves you enveloped in the wild of the mystical river.''Where to stay in Mana Pools?''Wilderness Safaris''Ruckomechi is located along the western boundary of the park in a private concession. The one camp is now two after a recent facelift moved the original camp, leaving a smaller more intimate “Little Ruckomechi” in its stead. The two camps are only a few minutes drive apart from one another and sit along the banks of the Zambezi River. In the distance, guests can see the Lower Zambezi National Park and the towering Zambezi escarpment. Despite having the same name each camp is unique in its experience.''Both camps offer a wide array of safari activities. Game drives are conducted in custom designed safari vehicles equipped with cupholders and blankets for cool mornings. Another option for guests is to take to the waters on a river boat cruise. It’s a favorite activity of ours in the evening because it can be enjoyed with a gin and tonic in hand. Of course, there is always the option to catch Tiger Fish while fishing on the river.''Two unique activities at Ruckomechi are canoeing and walking. After coming off four days in a canoe we gave that activity a skip, but for those looking to get their feet wet, so to speak, we highly recommend the activity. We often preach the beauty and tranquility of bush walks. It is a unique experience to a handful of African parks that allow for total immersion into the wilderness for safari guests. There likely is no better place to go on a walk as the guides of Zimbabwe are regarded as some of the best in Africa and are required to go through rigorous tests and training. It’s worth noting that Mana Pools National Park is the only park in Africa where you can walk unaccompanied, should that interest you.''Little Ruckomechi:''Little Ruckomechi''is the smaller more intimate camp. Natasha and I had a lovely night together in the camp all by ourselves. The camp consists of just four ensuite tented rooms situated in between a grove of Ana trees. The rooms all provide spectacular views of the river from low wood decks. Inside the tents are stylish decorations that blend the old and new of safari effortlessly. Rooms feature an open mesh wall facing the Zambezi providing views over the Zambezi from an open air shower, bed, and seating in the room.''Ruckomechi Camp:''Ruckomechi consists of 10 large\xa0spacious safari tents. Each\xa0room is stylishly decorated and has a large bedroom area. The en-suite bathroom has an amazing shower that opens up to the Zambezi via a tent flap allowing you to choose indoors or outdoors, we choose outdoors. A unique experience at Ruckomechi is a bath on the banks of the Zambezi River, where guests can soak in a bubble bath. We, of course, had to take full advantage of this enjoyed a romantic bubble bath together while listening to the sounds of the wild.''The common area capitalizes on the camp’s superb location. The large deck and sunken fire pit is where the majority of our time was spent at camp. Almost all meals and afternoon tea is served on this deck, unless requested otherwise. This meant every meal was joined by fantastic views out to the Zambezi River. \xa0A small walkway leads to a plunge pool and sun lounges. We visited in May while the weather was too cold to enjoy, but by August the pool is likely a welcome relieve during midday.''We had high expectations for our first Wilderness Safaris camp and we were not let down. The camp seemed to blend in seamlessly with the surrounding environment. It was also evident that the lodge does take to heart conservation despite being a publicly traded company. Clear steps to reduce plastic, use recycled products, leave a minimal footprint, and harness renewable power sources made the camp a hit for us. Of course having a stunning room with gorgeous views made the experience all the better.''Best Time To Visit Mana Pools''Spotting wildlife in Mana Pools, like almost all parks in Africa''is best in the dry season''. The dry season in Zimbabwe and Mana Pools is at its peak from June – October. The dry season makes it easy to spot animals in the bush while they concentrate around sources of water. The main source of water for the wildlife is the Zambezi River where the lodges and campsites are located. This creates for great game viewing while in camp too.''December to March is the green season. Rains begin to fall in November and by December the road network becomes difficult to traverse. Wildlife disperses in the park with the bountiful sources of water and foliage increases providing them greater camouflage.''There is a brief shoulder season in May before the peak season arrives in June. However, given the current state of international affairs''tourism is down in Zimbabwe''and the park is unlikely ever to be too busy like in the Kruger or the Serengeti. There are also a limited number of camps in the park and that limits the number of visitors in the park at one time.''What’s Your Typical Safari Day?''06:00 – Wake up call''06h30 – Breakfast''07h00 – Depart on morning activity. We recommend doing walking safaris in the morning as after about 9:00 temperatures will get too hot to walk.''11h30 – Return from morning activity and get ready for lunch.''12:00 – Lunch time''12:30 – Siesta time! Now is the perfect time to relax, read a book, or jump in the pool''15h30 – Afternoon tea and coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Usually accompanied with sundowner drinks''19h30 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''22h00 – ZZZZZZZZZ''Check out our Mana Pools Video!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Mana Pools Park Fees''Mana Pools National Park is open all year round; however, the park is largely inaccessible from December to April. National parks in Zimbabwe are similar to''many parks in Southern Africa''and very affordable.''Citizen'': Adult –''$8.00\xa0USD''per day''SADC'': Adult –''$15.00 USD''per day''Non-resident:''Adult –''$20\xa0USD''per day''Private Vehicle Fees''Locally Registered Vehicles''–''$5.00 USD''per day''Foreign Registered Vehicles''–''$10.00 USD''per day''Camping In Mana Pools''There is one communal campsite and several exclusive campsites that visitors can''book through ZimParks.''The campsites we stayed at while on the canoe safari are designated by the parks department and unmanaged. They are not open to private individuals.''Yellow Zebra Safaris''Our''Mana Pools safari holiday''was all handled by Yellow Zebra Safaris. They’re experts and professionals in the safari industry and were named Europe’s Leading Safari Company multiple times by the World Travel Awards. After doing so much of Africa independently it was a pleasure to work with a professional safari company.''Essential Items To Pack For A Safari In Zimbabwe''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A''good safari hat''is both stylish and functional. In peak dry season there is little to provide shade, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler.''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the on my Mana Pools safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''Don’t forget a good book for your canoe safari as there will be downtime! There is no WiFi on either the canoe safari or at any of the Wilderness properties so come prepared to get dome reading in!''General Info for traveling in Zimbabwe''Visas for Americans traveling to Zimbabwe cost $30 USD payable in cash at the border. Visas are good for 30 days. Americans have the cheapest visas while the Canadians and Brits have it the worst at $75 and $55 respectively.''More info on visas here.''As we were traveling between Zambia and Zimbabwe we opted for the recently released KAZA visa that is a dual visa good for both countries, it costs $50.''If self-driving in Zimbabwe expect to pay a road tax fee ($30), third party insurance ($30), and a road access fee ($10). No bribery was experienced for us in Zimbabwe.\xa0Fuel should be available at any border town and major city.''Having enough USD before you enter Zimbabwe is sure to make life easier. There is currently a cash shortage in Zimbabwe so make sure you arrive with enough to get you through your holiday. Cash would also be needed for any guide tips or souvenirs you would like to purchase.''The three main languages in Zim are\xa0English, Shona, and Ndebele. However, you will be able to get by fine with English in Zimbabwe.''The local meal in Zimbabwe is''sadza''and is a combination of maize, relish, and meat and it is delicious!''Read Next:''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: African Safari Diary #2''July 30, 2017''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''July 29, 2017''The Only Hwange National Park Guide You Will Need''July 24, 2017''This post was brought to you in collaboration with Yellow Zebra Safaris. As always, all opinions expressed are our own.''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: The Ultimate Guide''was last modified:''November 11th, 2017''by''Cameron''With more travelers heading to Fidel Castro’s home than ever the question of what to bring to Cuba gets asked a lot! It can be difficult to decide on what to put on your Cuba packing list.''After all, there are a lot of climate shifts on the island nation.''So, it’s tough to know what to put in your suitcase for the stifling\xa0heat of Havana or the cooler tobacco fields of Vinales. Cuba sees all walks of life from adventure seekers, cruise patrons, and even celebrities all with their own unique sense of fashion.''My suggestion is to go with your own fashion and stick to a few staple items!''What to Bring to Cuba''Essentials for Cuba''To enter Cuba you must have a pre-organised Cuba Tourist Card. Many airlines offer customers the card for a small fee but check with your airline before your flight. Some flights incorporate the exit tax in their flight prices, so check the small print so you can spend your CUC money on cocktails instead! I recommend putting a number of books on your Cuba packing list. Wi-Fi is limited to specified areas and you must purchase a card to log onto the internet. The World Pursuit recommends''They Walk Amongst Us'', creepily true crime stories from the UK.''If you are a bit particular about your drinking water a water filter is a great idea. The World Pursuit recommends the''LifeStraw Go''just to be safe. It tackles 99.9% of bacteria and helps reduce plastic waste.''Clothes for Cuba''When you are deciding what to pack for Cuba you should first determine how long you are traveling in Cuba. It is recommended that you take one more undergarment than required.''There are not launderettes on every corner, so we ended up hand washing our clothes.''The''Scrubba bag''is great for hand washing items! Except we were using shampoo as detergent and that smell still lingers with me. Be prepared and bring your own''travel detergent''if you are traveling with a rucksack.''Vest tops are handy for day and night, a couple of cardigans won’t go a miss for covering up sunburn or throwing over your shoulders in the evening.''I recommend that you take a mix of shorts and skirts, I rarely wear long trousers (we traveled for three weeks during the month of June); however, the mosquitos at Playa Larga (''near the Bay of Pigs'') are the worst that I’ve ever experienced. So long pants may be worth it if you are heading in that direction. Definitely, bring one bottle of''insect repellant.''Swimwear for Cuba''Cuba is an island and that islands mean water! Pack your swimwear for the glorious turquoise waters of Playa Ancon (Trinidad), Varadero, and Cayo Largo. Naturally, those who are holidaying in one of Cuba’s many all-inclusive resorts, beachwear will be the first thing they pack!''Most''casas particulares''provide towels. Our all-inclusive hotel actually ran out of large towels so we had to use two small ones (they did fashion them into swans though). If you want a good travel towel we recommend the''Youphoria Dry towel''or check out our other''favorite travel towels here.''Footwear for Cuba''You will clock up many miles on your''Fitbit''during a trip to Cuba’s capital, Havana. By day you will climb stairs to see the 360 city views from the Camera Obscura and by night, salsaing at Casa de la Musica or Buena Vista Social Club so sensible yet sexy footwear is necessary.''Cole Haan Ballet Flat''‘s are great for this!''Comfortable footwear''that is structured and well-worn in is recommended for ticking off the top 10 things to do in Havana. You may want to bring a pair of closed shoes such as trainers for cycling to the mogotes in Vinales or hiking to Javira Waterfall in Trinidad. The World Pursuit recommends the''Merrell Moab Ventilators''which keep us comfortable all day.''A sensible''party shoe such as a wedged heel''will dress up the backpacker’s little black dress but give you that lift which makes the mambo slightly more manageable (those Cubans make it look so easy!)''Accessories for Cuba''A bit of bling never goes amiss when dressing to impress over mojitos at''La Bodeguita del Medio''and you won’t want to forget a''cute sun hat''and shades for the blistering beach heat. Scarfs always make a great cover, blanket, hostel dorm bed curtain, hat or bag. So versatile!''Outerwear for Cuba''Although Cuba enjoys 7-10 hours of sun daily (time of year depending) and rarely dips below 79 degrees Fahrenheit it does rain. We were caught a downpour one afternoon in Trinidad and no amount of hiding in shop doorways was going to keep us dry. A decent raincoat goes a long way. I love my''Marmot rain jacket''as it’s light and folds away into its own pocket, perfect space-saving coat.''Electronics for Cuba''You won’t need a fancy phone or laptop because there are limitations on the internet in Cuba.\xa0However, investing in some sort of higher quality camera will most certainly pay off on these vibrant streets. The World Pursuit travels around with a''Fujifilm X-T10''and a''GoPro''for underwater shots, activities, and taking discrete photos. If you must carry a laptop they recommend a cheap''Chromebook, named one of their best travel laptops''Cuba mainly uses the standard U.S. style two-pronged outlet. Although you will find the Europlug at about 10% of the hotels in Cuba. Make sure to pack a''universal adaptor''with you just in case.''Giftgate''When we deciding what to bring to Cuba we were advised to take gifts for locals. We traveled from Havana to Vinales, Playa Larga to Trinidad then on to Varadero and not once were we expected to hand over gifts. We paid in cash for accommodation and apart from breakfast, we were left to treat the casas like hotel rooms. Owners would engage if we attempted to ask questions in our terrible Spanish. However, my friend recently took a group tour around the island and she was asked for toiletries around the southeast of the island. If you do plan on bringing gifts, be prepared beforehand. The reason that locals are looking for the likes of''tampons''and makeup is not only because their wages are low but mainly because their shops are often bare, it’s not unheard of the butter to run out!''Plan Your Trip to Cuba''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Cuba:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Nomads offer incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''The internet is limited in Cuba, we like to travel with''Lonely Planet books''for those wireless nights.''About the Author''Gemma and Craig, full-time workers with a life-long travel habit. Flirting with 30 and let loose on the world! Check in at''Two Scots Abroad''for travel tips, quips, and pics that please. You can find them on both''Facebook''and''Instagram''sharing their love for travel around the world.''Read Next:''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''What to Bring to Cuba • The Ultimate Cuba Packing List''was last modified:''April 14th, 2018''by''Cameron''It’s a mission to find the best possible safari hat. My first search for a good safari hat turned up very little and left me struggling to find a great hat for a life of safari. We wanted a stylish hat that looked great in photos not because of its functional purpose.\xa0For my generation, the idea of protecting ourselves from the very scary sun is almost a joke.\xa0However, on safari, we have come to learn you’re faced with long days out in a strong equatorial sun.''Despite loads of stylish safari\xa0gear, a good safari hat serves a purpose. Anyone who’s spent time in the African sun can attest to the power of the rays and a good hat is the first line of defense from sun damage. I became obsessed with the idea of the perfect hat and found my self-asking to try total strangers hats.''With all of this testing and searching, I made some headway (pun intended). After all that effort, my six-month mission to find the best safari hat money can buy was a total success.''What Makes A Great Safari Hat?''Everything that comprises a great sun hat is found in a safari hat, essentially they’re the same thing. The one exception with a safari hat is that you can get away with more rugged materials look stylish and not like a Crocodile Dundee impersonator.''Wide Brim'': The primary reason for wearing a hat on safari is to provide protection from the sun while you’re out in the African bush in search of wildlife''Waterproof:''It may seem silly to have a waterproof hat in the dry season, but you’re probably going to be sweating a lot. Not to mention there is no point in buying a flimsy cotton hat that will only last a short while. We’ve been caught in rain showers while on safari in both''South Luangwa''and the''Masai Mara,''without a hat and it sucked.''Comfort:''If you’re going to be wearing something on your head all day making sure that it is comfortable is a no brainer. Although, safari pith helmets are world famous for being the headwear of famous British explorers they’re terribly uncomfortable. Yes, we’ve tried them.''Material:''Leather, rubber, or synthetic all have their own advantages. What you pick for your safari hat depends on personal preference. My pick was for leather because it has the classic safari adventure feel and look\xa0– and with maintenance and care, they can last forever.''Style:''What you wear on your head says a lot about you. I had my idea of what the perfect safari hat would like and I was set on finding the perfect fit.''Why You Need A Safari Hat''Unlike safari clothes or''safari boots''we would say everyone needs a hat when on safari. Especially in East Africa! The majority of people coming on safari are from more Northern climates away from the equator.\xa0 The sun near the center of the earth is intense.''You spend a lot of time outside on a safari. As I said we probably do not take sun protection seriously enough, but meet anyone who has spent their days in Africa and they all wear a hat. After spending a year traveling the continent we can’t suggest a hat more, and consider it an essential item to our''Africa packing list.''On our first safari, I ended up paying for it with a nice sunburn turned into scab on my face because I didn’t think about sun protection. Do yourself a favor and invest in sun protection.''There are only a few things we absolutely stand by in packing for a safari and a good hat is one of them. At the very least bring a baseball cap. There is a reason every game ranger and guide we meet wears a hat.''Safari attire often goes beyond style''and serve an important purpose.''The Best Safari Hats''Tilley LTM6 Airflo Hat''Tilley has long been famed for their hats. They’re seen the world over and have seen more than a few adventures. It holds its shape and the material has a stylish look to it. What sets Tilley apart is that they guarantee their hats for life against wear and tear.''A wide brim keeps the sun off your hat. What I love in addition to the guarantee are the features such as its ability to float in the water and a hidden pocket to store and I.D. or money. It has everything you could want in a great safari hat. Although, the price point may deter some – just keep in mind it has a lifetime guarantee.''[''Check The Price Here!'']''Columbia Sportswear Bora Bora''I talk a lot about a stylish hat, but this, in my opinion, is the least attractive. However, this hat is probably the most practical hat out of our selection of safari hats. That being said for a synthetic floppy hat it looks pretty good.''The Bora Bora''is made out of nylon, is well vented, packs well, and features UPF technology. Comfort is the strongest characteristic of this hat as it keeps your head cool while sitting snuggly on your head. Unlike leather that can be itchy you’ll forget you’re even wearing this hat while out in the bush. I love the built-in sweatband to keep moisture out of your eyes.''[Check The Price Here!]''Panama Jack Sun Hat''This hat may not be the classic safari hat, but it still looks great and serves it’s purpose. A leather hat may look good on safari, but once you get to the coastline of Africa it may be time to put it away. The''Panama Jack Hat''has the ability to look great on the beach and in the bush. It’s probably one of the best all around hats on this list, and it’s rugged cotton construction means you can stick it in your bag without fear of damaging it.''[Check The Price Here!]''Conner Hats Men’s Bounty Hunter''This is one of my favorite hats on the list, but it’s also one of the most expensive.''The hat is rugged and stylish''. It still is highly practical being made out of sturdy organic cotton. You wouldn’t even guess the headwear is made out of cotton upon first look. A wide brim with built-in wire that can be adjusted assures that it accomplishes the task of sun protection. The distressed cotton wins me over for looks and could fool some for leather. This is a great winner for those who don’t like to wear animals products.''[Check The Price Here!]''Dorfman-Pacific Weathered Cotton Outback Hat''This hat is a contender for the best hat on the list, at least according to user reviews across the internet. It’s a great looking hat that is sturdy and offers plenty of protection. The wide brim will be sure to protect you from long days in the bush and despite being black, the thick cotton material remains cool. I could try and sell you on this hat or I can let the''reviews on Amazon''do the talking.''[Check The Price Here!]''Rogue One Hat''If you’re doing you’re shopping in Southern Africa you will come across this hat. It’s the hat I personally wear and it’s one of my favorite safari fashion items. The Rogue hats are manufactured in Southern Africa and can be difficult to find off the continent. However, it’s all made with great quality leather and built to last. These hats are simply amazing and mine will likely last a lifetime. The only downside is finding them, granted there is''one listed on Amazon''.''[Check The Price Here!]''Outback Trading Co Men’s Co. Kodiak Oilskin Hat''This is the perfect hat for those going into the outback, or the African bush. Like most of the hats on this list it’s made out of cotton. The cotton has been treated with oil making meaning it is water resistant. So when you get caught in a thunderstorm you don’t need to worry about the safety of your hat or getting uncomfortable. It’s a''stylish hat''and probably one of my favorites on the list.''[Check The Price Here!]''Now sit back with your safari hat, a sundowner, and enjoy the bush!''Read Next:''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''The Best Safari Shirts for Men and Women''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The Best Safari Hat to Wear on Safari''was last modified:''April 12th, 2018''by''Cameron''“There is one thing the photograph must contain, the humanity of the moment.”''– Robert Frank –''“Weren’t you scared driving around Africa?”''“Did people try to hurt you?”''“How did you communicate over in Africa?''”''These are all questions we receive time and time again about our travels. However, the questions were never so intense as they were about Africa. Yes, the roads may have been bad, the poverty rampant, the food occasionally questionable, and the internet virtually nonexistent. One thing is for sure though, the people of Africa are among some of the most warm hearted people we have come ever across.''My favorite photographic subjects are people. The only thing is, they are the most difficult to shoot. An animal won’t say mean things to you when you take their photo unannounced, and the tall mountains and vast oceans don’t mind when you relish and snap away at their beauty. Humans though, well they have to be asked or else you risk offense, dignity, and you may lose your poise. Asking may ruin the moment, asking may get you a response you weren’t hoping for, but here is what happens when you leap out a short distance.''The Beautiful People of Africa''Mozambique and Zanzibar''These two photos are among my favorites from Africa. The one on the left was taken in a rural village near Morrembane in''Mozambique''. This little girl was gathering water from a well for her family. We couldn’t communicate with words, but instead settled on smiles and laughter. She followed us through the palm trees and together we had a little photo shoot. When she showed us her home all the women in the home wanted numerous photos taken of them. A couple months later we were able to send them prints to a nearby lodge.''The photo on the right was taken near''Paje Beach on Zanzibar''. I asked this Maasai if he was a real Maasai and to show me his teeth, as it is a tradition in the''Maasai culture''to remove the two bottom teeth. He then smiled as wide as he could revealing his gap!''Namibia''This is Bino! He was our''San Bushman''guide at''Wolwedans in the Namib Desert''. To this day he was the youngest guide we ever have had at 22 years old. We see great things for his future! I loved his youthfulness in real life and the photo.''Zambia''We went into a village near Livingstone to get a glimpse into what life was like there. It was interesting for us to see how children were being taught in schools, people going into church, and mothers cooking over open fires for their families. These two boys were riding bicycles and playing together and once they saw my camera they immediately wanted their photo taken. It wasn’t just one though, once they saw themselves on the camera screen they just wanted me to keep taking photos!''Zambia''Another Zambian treasure. I wish I could remember this woman’s\xa0name, but for the life of me I can’t. I met her at the''Tongabezi Trust School''which started as a small classroom but now teaches 200 students per year! She and her son grew up in a rural Zambian village, and now after going to school he is getting his masters degree in South Africa. She is one proud mama!''Namibia''We went to the\xa0Living Museum of the Mbunza near Rundu, Namibia. The''Living Culture Foundations''goal is to preserve ancient cultures and traditions while providing jobs for rural Namibians and teaching foreigners about ancient life there. \xa0They have them all over the country as there are many different tribes. This one was aimed at preserving the culture of the Kavango people in the Caprivi Strip. We watched them dance for an hour or so and couldn’t get over how much fun they were having at their job!''Malawi''Malawi is famed for being the “''warm heart of Africa,''” as it is said that everyone is friendly. After spending three weeks in the tiny country we can confirm that this is true! Everyone (and I mean everyone) we met in Malawi was so cheerful, eager, and curious despite being some of the''poorest people in the world.''I snapped this photo at a bar in Nkhata Bay because the staff and local kids were just so darn nice!''Malawi''Sometimes we like to people watch from a vantage point hoping not to get noticed. That’s what happened here when we were grabbing tea in Nkhata Bay. While we sipped our tea we noticed it was shopping time down below. I immediately started taking photos of the action when one guy noticed me. He stopped what he was doing, grabbed the woman next to him (perhaps they knew each other?), and smiled! Two minutes later he was on the balcony having tea with us!''Zanzibar''Have you checked out our post about the day we''watched life pass us by in Stone Town''? Well, this photo is from that day! I sat next to the door at the Zanzibar Coffee House and couldn’t help noticing everyone that walked by. All the different locals, tourists, mothers, and fathers that were just going about their daily lives in the city walls.''What were they thinking and where were they going? Then this sweet little girl walked by with a bag of groceries. I’m not sure if she knew if I was taking a photo or was just genuinely happy, but I love this photograph!''Zimbabwe''The Zambezi''is famed for being extremely dangerous with their hippo and croc population.\xa0Despite my fear of hippos and crocodiles, Cameron and I did a''three-day overnight canoe trip down Africa’s''fourth longest river.''A few days in the hot African sun and we needed a shower very badly, our Zimbabwean guides – Trust, TK, and Manuel convinced us to take a bath in the shallow waters of one of the channels. Surprisingly I enjoyed it more than I thought I would!''Malawi''More proof to how beautiful the Malawian people are was the day we went kayaking on Lake Malawi. After kayaking against the strong current we decided to take a break and go swimming. We docked along the shores of an undeveloped region on the lake. As we arrived this group of young children were waiting for us. At first they just watched from a distance.''I’m sure wondering what the strange white people were up to. After about ten minutes we couldn’t take them just staring anymore so we decided to play around with them!''Zambia''I think it’s the blonde hair, but for some reason I always seem to get chosen for audience participation. We spent New Years Eve 2017 in Lusaka, the capital of Zambia.''Our night out included dinner, drinks, the casino, and listening to a live band. My job in this photo was to try and speak Nyanja, the language most prevalent in Lusaka. As you can probably tell by their faces I failed miserably.''Lesotho''Numerous travelers told us the\xa0Basotho people of Lesotho weren’t friendly towards outsiders. We decided we still couldn’t miss the landlocked country and went anyway. We spent a few days''snowboarding on at one of Africa’s only ski resorts'', catching the views at Maletsunyane Falls, and exploring the mountain kingdom.''Lesotho can get very cold, and when visiting you will usually see men and women wrapped in warm blankets with face hats on. The look intrigued me so I asked this man if I could take his photo, without a response he looked at me and smiled!''Zambia''This photo was taken on another one of our log days in Africa. We had to drive from''Zambia to the Malawian border''and then we kept pushing on to Nkhata Bay. The drive took about 15 hours in one day. I like to call it''the African day from hell.''The one thing that made it better was the mangos! It was mango season in both Malawi and Zambia and everywhere you looked children were selling mangos on the side of the road. We stopped off at this family because they were dancing and singing with the mangos. We ended up buying 10 Zambian Kwacha worth of mangos ($1), which we were unaware would get us about 25 sweet and juicy pieces of delectable fruit. The family was so ecstatic that we stopped off to buy''their''mangos!''Kenya''This wasn’t taken at the well known Giraffe Manor but instead taken next door at the''Giraffe Center.''For 1000 Kenyan Shillings visitors can interact, feed, and even kiss Masai Giraffes. The giraffes at the center are being rehabilitated before their re-entry back into the wild. We also loved that the Giraffe Center educates Kenyan children on the importance of wildlife conservation. This Kenyan woman and her children were behind us enjoying giraffe kisses. I love the look on the little boys face in this photo!''Namibia''The photo on the left was taken at\xa0Ijambwe, a local Namibian village on the floodplains of the East Caprivi. I kept making faces at the little kids and they made them back. This little boy was the most charismatic one of the bunch and took his faces to a whole new level by dancing! A few minutes later all the children wanted to join in!''Swaziland''This was taken while we were visiting Swazi Candles,\xa0a popular candle making''company in Swaziland''that employs 45 people and exports products to over 20 countries! We had a friend that did their marketing work so she offered to show us around. No one seemed to mind our presence and were happy to show us the full candle making process.''Kenya''Lucy was our first and only female safari guide we had in Africa. She is a Maasai woman native to the Masai Mara. She was supposed to be married off to a man she had never met at a young age, but instead fought for education and to go to school. Now she is a guide at one of''Kenya’s top lodges''! We were able to galavant around with her for three days while we were on safari in Kenya.''Tanzania''This photo was taken at what was probably one of the strangest guesthouses we’ve ever stayed in. The drive from Arusha to Kigali took 16 hours so we had to stop somewhere in between.\xa0Aqua Vitae Resort''was one the cheapest and nicest places we could find. The whole property looked like a giant putt putt course with fake dinosaur, elephant, and monkey statues all over. As we were admiring the beautiful works of art(?) the workers became very curious about us – or Cameron I should say! I’m not sure what it was about him, but these Tanzanian guys really liked his style and wanted a photo with him.''South Africa''This is Thembi, she was our tour guide through''Kayamandi Township''where she grew up. We met her on Sunday morning in Stellenbosch so she was dressed to the nines and in one of the most beautiful African outfits I had ever seen. After lunch with her we stopped to check out street art and she let me snap this photo. Thank’s for the good vibes Thembi!''Uganda''This was the day we sold our Toyota Land Cruiser in Kampala. We had decided after 25,000 miles we had enough of driving across Africa. Charlie, our car, had to find a new owner. It took us three solid weeks to find a reputable buyer. So finally on a sunny Ugandan day in April we sold the car to a safari operator (not pictured), his wife, safari guide, and assistant. It was a bittersweet day for us, but we were happy that our bad ass truck found a new owner!''Read the full story here.''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''January 17, 2018''23 Portraits of Happiness From Around Africa''was last modified:''July 5th, 2017''by''Natasha''At almost 22,500 so km, Kafue National Park is the largest national park in''Zambia''and one of the biggest in the world. The landscape of the park ranges from dense riverine forest along the banks of the Kafue River to wide open plains. Safari-goers stand a good chance of sighting lions and leopards, and even cheetahs in the north of the park. Originally founded by the legendary Norman Carr in the 1950’s, Kafue established Zambia’s first national park.''Despite the park’s massive size, long history, and accessibility it is seldom traveled in comparison to many other''parks in Southern Africa''. It does have its reasons for not drawing the tourists of''South Luangwa''or''The Lower Zambezi'', but the park is making strides in conservation and begs to be explored.''The park is only a few hours drive from Livingstone or Lusaka. However, it still contains vast tracts of untouched wilderness with the spread out''safari lodges''operating in the park.''In recent years interest continues to grow and in our opinion, Kafue National Park is very much an''upcoming park sure to be a hit for safari-goers in the future.''Zambia’s Kafue National Park''Kafue is a shining beacon of why we love Zambia for safari. Wildlife, despite nearly being wiped out in the past, is expanding thanks to an increased interest in the park and funding for wildlife protection. The Zambian Wildlife Authority is growing and on one of our game drives in the park, we saw a brand new round of recruits training to one day protect the park’s resources.''Kafue occupies a massive expanse of land with rising numbers of wildlife.''Kafue''National Park is home to a wide range of game including rare ungulates such as the lechwe, roan, sable, and duikers. On one evening boat cruise along the Kafue, we saw what is a common sighting, a leopard. A sighting that in a more “popular” and well-known park would have been ruined by other boats and vehicles, but we had that leopard all to ourselves! With large intact woodlands leopards thrive in the park and in our first two days there we saw four separate leopards. One of our best sightings of leopard involved one dropping from a tree to devour his kill.''It’s also''estimated that the largest population of African wild dogs''in the world exists in the Kafue. With a massive habitat, the animals are free to roam covering massive swaths of land in just a few hours. Kafue National Park is also the only park in Zambia with a population of cheetahs. The cheetahs are largely concentrated in the North of the park, but can sometimes be found elsewhere.''Kafue has much to offer visitors with its vast landscapes and massive diversity of animals. On our drives, we drifted across a wave of tall golden grass only to see a rare blue duiker dash across the road. It had all the romanticism we love about safaris in Africa, without the crowds. Cruising around in a silent electric Land Rover allowed for the sounds of the bush to envelop us. The ever-present red-eyed dove, an alarm call from a puku, and the roar of a lion hung in the air.''The vast space and poaching of the past leaves wildlife that is dispersed throughout the park. So, it may not be the dream destination for someone on their first safari. That does not mean the Kafue is lacking in wildlife. In two days we had some of our best sighting of leopards, saw lions, elephant, puku, and plenty of hippo and croc.''While all the buzz in the safari industry continues to swirl around''Botswana'', Zambia is very much in the running for the best place to go on safari. Our favorite part? The country comes in at a fraction of the cost as their neighbor.''Where to stay in Kafue National Park?''No place better demonstrates what Zambia has to offer than Kafue.''Ila Safari Lodge, our accommodation in Kafue''comes in at just $475 a night a person. To find similar accommodation\xa0in Botswana would set you back around $2000 a person a night. Furthermore, the lodge was wonderful and a favorite of ours throughout all of Africa.''Ila Safari Lodge sits on the banks of the Kafue River with a large semi-circle main lodge. The thatched structure offers an infinity pool, elevated dining area, coffee station, full bar, and sun deck with a fire pit. After sundowners on the river, we enjoyed sitting around the fire and listening to the sounds of the Kafue while drinking our Irish whiskeys from their nightcap bar.''Our meals at the lodge were great and they did a wonderful job at crafting two unique experiences. The first being a lunch floating down the river and the other a bush breakfast cooked over a fire. These are signature dining experiences for anyone visiting the lodge!''The tents at the lodge are stilted over the water and bring a modern element to safari while not harming the environment. Each tent is replete with wood floors, curtains, brass fixtures, and small design details that are all tasteful. \xa0A real highlight for us was the free-standing bathtub on our deck. If you want to be able to enjoy the tub as well be sure to book in advance as there is only one room with the feature.''Being''environmentally conscious''is at the forefront of what the company and lodge are aiming to accomplish and they pride themselves on being''100% eco in Africa''. They are the testing ground for a brand new solar-powered pontoon boat and electric Land Rover and are one of the first in Zambia with one. They also supply all rooms with filtered drinking water in order to reduce the amount of plastic waste.''For a new company, Green Safaris came close to hitting every target. We had an amazing safari with our guide, Mullah, and the rest of the team at Ila Lodge. We came into Kafue knowing absolutely nothing about the park but left incredibly impressed with our safari. Don’t just take our words, check out the video we made!''What all can you do in Kafue National Park?''Game Drive:''This is the most popular activity to do on safari. Ila Lodge has an electric powered Land Rover, so we were able to get up close to wildlife without all the engine noise.''River Cruise:''Cruise down the Kafue River and relax on either a speedboat or the lodge’s brand new e-boat! This is where we were able to get close to the leopards hanging out on the banks.''Walking Safari:''These are great to do if you want to stretch your legs, get active and appreciate the smaller plants and animals of the bush. If you’re going on a bush walk make sure to pack a''good pair of safari boots.''Fishing:''During the season, you can head out to the river to try your hand at fishing.''Dine with the Ladies Club:''Have a traditional Zambian lunch with the ladies of Chunga Community!''What’s a typical day on safari in the Kafue National Park like?''05h30 – Wake up call (Bring a''packable down jacket'', it gets cold).''06h00 – Coffee and Biscuits''06h30 – Depart on morning activity. Take a drive on an electric Land Rover.''09h30 – Breakfast in the Bush''11:00 – Return from morning activity. Relax''12h30 – Lunch out on the solar powered pontoon boat.''15h30 – Afternoon Tea/Coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Sundowner drinks while cruising on the river.''19h30 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''22h00 – Sleep! It’s been a long day on safari''How to book this trip in Kafue National Park?''Our''Kafue safari holiday''was all handled by Yellow Zebra Safaris. After doing so much of Africa independently it was a pleasure to work with a great safari company and to sit back and let someone else do the planning.''Kafue Safari Essentials''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. You spend a lot of time in the sun when on safari so we suggest protecting yourself.''Shemagh'': I use this a lot on safari. Early mornings can be chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''General Info for traveling in Zambia''The capital of Zambia is Lusaka and is one of the main entrance points into the country. We flew to Lusaka from Nairobi and stayed at the beautiful''Latitude 15 hotel''before we made way for our safari.''The main currency in Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Although USD is accepted at most safari lodges. Many places in Zambia do not accept credit card.''Check to see if you need a visa to enter Zambia.''Americans can expect to pay $50 for a 30-day visa, or if traveling to Zambia and Zimbabwe they can get a Uni-visa for $50 good for both countries for 30 days. Visas can usually be purchased on arrival although you do have the option to get an''e-visa beforehand.''We found most Zambians to be extremely friendly, with many in the tourism sector being able to speak excellent English.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Bonus Video!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read More:''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''The Ultimate African Safari Guide''The Ultimate Lower Zambezi National Park Guide''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''July 29, 2017''This post was brought to you in collaboration with Yellow Zebra Safaris. As always, all opinions expressed are our own.''A Kafue National Park Guide: Zambia’s Forgotten Park''was last modified:''April 10th, 2018''by''Cameron''To plan a safari can be a daunting task. Even when you use the advice of good tour agent it is difficult to make certain decisions. We’ve been on over 30 safaris in Africa and we are often asked for advice on safaris in Africa. There are a number of key points to consider in order to plan your safari.''You should determine where to go, how long, what to pack, and the budget for your safari. Today, we are going to tell you where to start and how to plan the perfect African safari.''How To Plan a Safari in Africa''Decide Where To Go On Safari''First, it’s important to decide where in Africa you want to go on your safari. There are two main regions that hold the best wildlife – East Africa or Southern Africa. Each region is distinct, but they generally have the same key animals you are probably hoping to see on safari.''East Africa''East Africa encompasses Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda. Tanzania, and more notably the Serengeti and the''Ngorongoro Crater,''has the largest draw for tourists and is world renowned for its game filled plains of grass in the Serengeti. Nairobi, Dar Es Salaam, and Arusha are key entry points into East Africa. If you’re looking for more on safaris in East Africa check out''our posts on Tanzania''or''Kenya''.''Southern Africa''South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Zambia are the key countries in Southern Africa for safari. The principal airport in\xa0Southern Africa is Johannesburg. Many people will start at Kruger National Park, which is only a four hour drive from Johannesburg. From there tourist can also take regional flights to Namibia, Botswana, Zambia, or Zimbabwe; however, all of the countries have international airports, but may be more expensive than flying into South Africa. If you’re looking to get more in-depth take a look at our''best places to go on safari in Southern Africa''. Alternatively, you can always rent a car and''drive around Southern Africa''.''Plan For Your Visas''After you decide where to go for your safari in Africa you should consider visa requirements for the destination. As Americans, we are able to enter South Africa, Namibia, and Botswana visa free.''Zambia and Zimbabwe both require a visa for entry, but this can be done on arrival at the airport or land border. For those traveling to both Zambia and Zimbabwe, visitors can now obtain a''KAZA Uni Visa''which is good for 30 days in both countries and can be acquired at the border for $50 USD.''Any visitor going to Malawi''should expect to pay $75 for their tourist visa, which can be bought at the border and can only be paid for in USD produced after 2013.''American visitors traveling to Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda can acquire the''East African Tourist Visa''which is good for 90 days between all three countries. However, once you leave those countries the visa expires and is voided. You can apply for this visa online at least three days in advance of your arrival. If you are just traveling to one of those countries you can obtain your visa on arrival at the airport or by land.''Tanzania travelers must also have a visa'', which can be obtained on arrival for most nationalities. A single entry Tanzanian visa costs $50 cash except for US nationals. US passport holders must get a multiple-entry visa\xa0for $100 cash only for their Tanzanian visa, this visa is good for one year.''We always to check visas requirements beforehand as they vary according to nationality. We’ve also noticed that African visas are subject to change at a moments notice so make sure to check periodically. We get most of our info from each countries''Wikitravel page''or the local embassy website, which we have always found to be up to date and reliable.''Decide What Season To Go On Safari''Time of year is key for travel in Africa. There are two main seasons that will affect your safari planning – dry and rainy. During the dry season rainfall is rare. The air is dry and temperatures vary widely between hot and cold. Vegetation is sparse and animals have to fight for survival.''While the heat during the day may make your safari uncomfortable it’s important to remember that this is the best time of the year to spot game. With limited water animals concentrate around riverbeds, lakes, and man-made watering holes giving you more of a chance to spot game. During this season it is easier to spot wildlife with less foliage on the trees and bushes. However, it does get HOT (and I mean like above 40°C) in Africa during the dry season. October is even dubbed “suicide month” amongst the locals.''The rainy season, on the other hand, will be cooler and the landscape is green and lush. The rainy season is usually the off-season or shoulder season for safaris. It is much harder to spot game as the animals now have a surplus of water and don’t have to travel to riverbeds and waterholes to drink. The rainy season is also when the\xa0state of the roads degrade. Many lodges in Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Zambia, and Kenya shut down because their locations are virtually inaccessible. However, if you time it right with the shoulder season you can find fewer crowds and lower prices.''We have been on safaris during all times of year and always have an extraordinary time. We’ve seen wild dogs (four times) during the shoulder season and sometimes have gone on safari in the dry season to see absolutely nothing. You can never count on anything concrete while on safari – this is the wild after all!''Check Your Health''It is critical to ensure you’re up to date on all your shots before your safari. We''went and got up to date on ours''before we started our life of travel. We recommend you have current tetanus, typhoid, and hepatitis A & B vaccinations.''Many countries in East/West Africa also require you to have a Yellow Fever Vaccine. However, we have never once been asked for proof of Yellow Fever. We recommend checking the''CDC website''for the best information.''In regards to malaria, verify if you will be traveling in a malaria zone first. If you are traveling in a region with risk of malaria make sure to take proper precautions to ensure you do not get infected.''I’ve talked about malaria before,''but long story short Doxycycline and Malarone are the two main preventive drugs available.''We personally do not take malaria prevention. Instead, we adhere to preventive steps and sleep under mosquito nets, use insect repellant, and cover skin at night.''If you have the time and want to save some money on vaccines and medicines consider going to a clinic when you land in Africa. This is what we did and the prices are a fraction of the cost than in Western countries. We also have found that the local doctors have a greater knowledge of the diseases and regions than doctors back home.''Cash on Safari''On safari, US Dollar is king and accepted at most lodges. When it comes to tips any guide will happily accept USD. I would suggest bringing extra cash for staff and guide tips, souvenirs, and for backup in case of emergencies. Outside of major cities, you will have trouble using a credit card.''This isn’t to say that local currencies aren’t welcome! If you arrive in Africa with less cash than desired then any ATM will be able to dispense the local currency. However, most countries do not accept neighboring currencies. Make sure to know exchange rates before you land – we like to use the''XE app''for this.''A general rule of thumb for tipping on safari is $5-$10 per day per person in the general staff pool and $5-$10 per person per day to your guide. Tips should be sorted at the end of your safari.''Notes:''The South African Rand is widely accepted all over Southern Africa. This includes Namibia, Lesotho, Mozambique, and Swaziland. The Rand is 1:1 with the Namibian Dollar, the Lesotho Loti, and the Swazi\xa0Lilangeni.''Zimbabwe has been in an economic crisis mode since 2000 and you should enter the country with enough USD to get you through your trip. Read more about''travel in Zimbabwe''here.''What To Pack On Safari''We recommend you''wear lightweight and neutral colors for safari''. The average day on safari will start before sunrise and end after sunset so layers are key to stay comfortable. Yes, it gets cold in Africa. Don’t go on safari without at least some sort of jacket or fleece. Daytime is likely to yield high temperatures and this is where the lightweight clothing comes in!''Most of your safari will be spent in the back of a game viewer, so in reality, you can wear whatever you want. I spend most of my time on safari in flip flops.''There is one exception,\xa0and that is if you plan to do walking safaris. Walking safaris or bush walks are one of our favorite safari activities in Zimbabwe, Zambia, and Tanzania. \xa0It is crucial to have the right shoes and clothing for this activity.''Good safari boots''will keep your feet comfortable on any terrain and you will be advised to wear neutral clothes to blend in.''A good safari hat''is always recommended. The African sun is no joke and you don’t want to get sunburned!''If you want to take photos of all the amazing wildlife, we would suggest picking up a''decent safari camera''as well. If you’re wondering where to put all this stuff in check out some of our''favorite safari bags here.''How To Book Your Safari''You may be used to planning and booking your own vacations; however, Africa is a different ballgame. Proper information is lacking on travel in Africa and in many places the tourism infrastructure is not adequate.''We took a leap and drove ourselves from''South Africa to Uganda.''I will be the first to admit it was no walk in the park. If you are short on time and don’t want the headache of planning and organizing your African adventure I would suggest organizing your safari through a tour operator. We’ve personally have used''Yellow Zebra Safaris''in the past, and they know safaris in Africa well.''We have priced out the cost of booking on our own versus through a provider and find it sometimes can be cheaper to go through an operator.''African lodges''are very loyal to their safari operators and agents and often provide them discounts that they don’t provide to individuals organizing themselves.''There are also a number of companies that do not allow individuals to book their stays with them. This is largely done out of safety and to ensure their guests have a hassle free trip.''That being said, it is possible to organize a safari on your own. We recommend doing so''in Southern Africa''where prices are more affordable, infrastructure is more advanced, and roads/''internet''/information is more prevalent. We did a self-drive in''Kruger National Park''our third day on the African continent and had a wonderful time.''Other places that are easy to do yourself are''Etosha National Park'', the''Western Cape'', and Victoria Falls. A general rule of thumb that we have found is the further north you get in Africa the harder (''and more expensive'') travel becomes.''As always, it pays to do your research and find out what is right for your African safari. Check out our''Hashtag Africa page''for first-hand information on travel in Africa.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in \xa0Africa:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Tours around Africa:''If you’re not much of a driver check out some of these''African tours.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Read Next:''The Best Safari Shirts for Men and Women''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''The Best Safari Boots For Bush Walks REVIEWED''The Big Five: Animals You’ll Want To See On Safari''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''was last modified:''December 1st, 2017''by''Natasha''Africa may fall short of a few things for visitors, but mind-blowing wildlife experiences it not one of them. After a year on the continent, we lost count the number of times we were left speechless. Here are our top ten wildlife experiences to enjoy in Africa.''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''1.) Swim With Whale Sharks''Tofo Beach, Mozambique is famous for its deep bay and abundance of Megafauna. It is arguably one of the best places in the world to go diving and snorkeling with''whale sharks.''These gentle giants may have the name “shark,” but they are filter feeders like many whales don’t mind the presence of swimmers.''This lead to one of our best days in Africa as we swam with the''whale sharks and manta rays off the coast.''The sharks glide through the water and allow swimmers to spend plenty of time to swim with them. We were able to spend 3o minutes swimming with the shark pictured below.''That’s not all, humpback and southern right whales migrate to the coast every June through December to breed and give birth. With an exotic location like Mozambique, you might expect it to be expensive,''except it’s not''!\xa0The ocean safari with the whale sharks lasts two hours and costs $30 with''Peri-Peri Divers''.''2.) Canoe Down The Mighty Zambezi''The mighty Zambezi is the fourth largest river in Africa and cuts through six countries on its way to the Indian Ocean. There are many national parks and safari concessions that stake their claim along this famous river creating a magnificent wildlife haven.''We set off on a canoe safari between''Mana Pools''and''The Lower Zambezi National Park''. The canoe safaris are entirely self-sufficient, there are no support teams just guests, guides, and an ancient river. Luckily, we had the experts with''Natureways Safaris''to guide down the legendary river. Our guides expertly navigated a maze of sandbanks, hippos, and islands crossing back and forth between Zambia and Zimbabwe.\xa0We spent three nights camping overnight in the middle of river’s many islands as the wild enveloped us.''3.) Track Mountain Gorillas In Uganda''Mountain gorillas are critically endangered and our second closest living relatives sharing 97% of our DNA. \xa0With only two populations left in Rwanda, Uganda and the DRC, it means there are the only three countries in the world where you can see the last of the mountain gorillas. The largest population of these animals exists in''Bwindi Impenetrable\xa0National Forest''in Uganda with over 60%.''To see some of our closest ancestors in the wild is life changing. Gorillas can weigh nearly 500 pounds, but visitors never feel threatened by the docile creatures who seem more interested in their family social structure. Our family of 17 had two young babies who were a constant source of entertainment jumping off the back of the male silverback, or family leader.''You can see the gorillas in Rwanda or the DRC; however with the high price tag of gorilla trekking in Rwanda ($1500) and the instability of the DRC we preferred\xa0the''Pearl of Africa''. Read more''about our experience here!''4.) Spot Rare Monkeys In The Jozani Forest''Zanzibar''is the last place in the world to see the red colobus monkey. Conservationist concludes about half of them live outside of the sanctuary and the other half live in Jozani National Park. The monkeys are unique and make for a wonderful break from the''beautiful beaches of Zanzibar''.''Jozani Forest is located in the Eastern part of the island and if you get to the forest early enough you are almost guaranteed to spot them! \xa0Sadly, even with the sanctuary, their numbers are still decreasing. The forest itself is also a sad representation of what the island once was. However, after centuries of deforestation, it will never be the same.''5.) Get Stinky At The Cape Cross Seal Colony''Along the infamous''Skeleton Coast in Namibia''is a small patch of beach that is home to tens of thousands Cape fur seals. Visitors are welcome to visit the protected area. The entrance fee costs 80 Namibian dollars or $6 USD.''As visitors hang out with the stinky and loud marine mammals it can get a tad overwhelming. Especially the smell! Their numbers are vast and they occupy the beach in its entirety. We suggest you visit during the months of October and November to see the seals breeding and giving birth.''We spent just over an hour with the seals and nearly had to burn our clothes. Be warned the smell of the seals will seep into your skin and it is not pleasant. So, don’t forget nose plugs!''6.) Hang Out With Penguins On Boulders Beach''Over the years the penguins at Boulders Beach have become instafamous. Thirty minutes''outside of Cape Town’s city center''is Boulder’s Beach – home to thousands of the mini tuxedoed birds. For 65 Rand ($4) visitors can view the African Penguins from a boardwalk for exceptional viewing and low environmental impact.''The African penguin is the only species of penguin found in Africa so they are a must-see for anyone visiting the Western Cape. The birds are very charismatic and will make for some wonderful photos. Their nickname is the jackass penguin and it only takes a few minutes on the beach hearing them call out to one another to understand the name comes from.''7.) Safari In The Namib Desert''Did you know the Namib Desert in Namibia is believed to the oldest in the world? Did you also know that you can also go on''safari in the Namib Desert''?''Among the tallest sand dunes in the world live\xa0giraffe, zebra, oryx, elephants, and even cheetah! We went on a five-day safari in Namibia and we were able to catch all of these animals struggling to survive in the harsh dry land.''8.) Take A Mokoro Through The Delta''A mokoro is a traditional dugout canoe used by local people to traverse the Okavango Delta. The travel buzz continues to swirl around''Botswana’s stunning Okavango Delta''and the mokoro is a quintessential thing to do.''Snaking through the small channels of the Delta on a silent mokoro is a spectacular way to see elephants, buffalo, and even lions. The journey also provides you a chance to enjoy the smaller things that compose the delta ecosystem.''9.) Bush Walk In Zambia''Zambia is one of the most popular countries in Africa to go on a walking safari. In the national parks of Zambia visitors are given the chance to go in search of big game on foot with some of the best guides in the safari business.''Out of the comfort of a game viewer and in open with wild animals heightens your senses. The snap of a twig could be a cape buffalo hiding in the bushes or a lion slowly stalking. It all feels surreal and pulls you into your surroundings.''It’s Cameron’s favorite safari activity in Africa. If you’re looking to put your feet on the ground too, we recommend both''South Luangwa''and Lower Zambezi national parks. Also, make sure your''feet are protected with safari boots''.''10.) Find Cheetah in The Serengeti-Mara Ecosystem''Cheetahs can still be found throughout Southern and East Africa, but the Serengeti-Mara ecosystem is their most iconic habitat. The ecosystem comprises''the Masai Mara'', Serengeti, and surrounding wildlife conservations. While the ecosystem is world famous for the great migration we love it for its cheetah population. We even had the chance to spot them from a''hot air balloon in the Masai Mara!''Safari-goers are almost guaranteed to see them here as they are well protected in the region. There are also a few famous cheetahs that are known for jumping on game viewers in search of a better vantage point. However, in recent years this animal behavior has been discouraged by conservationists.''Essential Items To Pack For a Trip to Africa''There are a few things that one should pack for Africa''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. In peak dry season there is little to provide shade, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler.''We love our earth and try to use as many''environmentally friendly products''that we can on our travels.''Shemagh'': I use this a lot in the on safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and quick trips.''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Read Next:''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''was last modified:''October 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''South Luangwa National Park is touted as one of the greatest wildlife sanctuaries on earth. Asides Victoria Falls, the South Luangwa is Zambia’s largest tourism draw with safari goers frequenting the park. At 9,050 sq km, it is massive in size and harbors an astounding amount of wildlife. Famed for a healthy leopard population that almost guarantees guests sightings of the majestic hunter we consider it one of the''best parks to go on safari in Africa''.''Established as a game reserve in 1928 the park is one of the last natural\xa0habitats in all of Africa. Its inaccessibility\xa0is the primary reason for this wildlife haven since the park is nearly unreachable from the North and West. The Luangwa river is the artery of the park supporting humongous pods of hippos in the dry season that can number up to over 100. On the plains of the park pukus, zebra, waterbuck, Thornicroft giraffe, and lions thrive.''South Luangwa National Park''Our Experience in South Luangwa National Park''If there is one park in Africa we’ll never forget it’s South Luangwa National Park. It’s not because we spent nearly a week in the park, saw African wild dogs for the first time, or had an incredible walking safari experience.''It’s because six months prior to our arrival we made the''biggest mistake in all of our 25,000 miles driving around Africa''. While driving overland with our trusty LandCruiser Charlie we had planned to drive from the North into the park. To do this would involve traversing the Muchinga Escarpment which is questionable in the dry season; however, we were smack dab in the middle of the wet season.''It was the day before we were due to arrive in the park when we realized our error and determined it would take 21 more hours of driving to right the mistake. We had to cancel. At the time, we thought we had missed South Luangwa for good.''Six months later, we’re on a plane from Nairobi to Lusaka for a 40-day safari with''Yellow Zebra Safaris''. Our first stop was none other than Chinzombo, the lodge we had failed to make it to six months earlier.''We couldn’t have asked for a better introduction to South Luangwa National Park. We spent six nights on the Luangwa river and each morning as the sun rose up over the meandering river was breathtaking.''It was early May and the weather was cool and dry. A fantastic time to visit the park. Although the game density is not as great as the peak of dry season, it did not stop us from having an amazing safari. We saw the birth of a zebra and a pack of wild dogs – both rare moments on safari. Watching an animal takes it’s first breath and steps is indescribable, a moment we will remember for life.''Safaris goers in Zambia have the ability to enjoy both night game drives and walking safaris. We made sure to take advantage of both activities. Activities like bush walks are a unique experience as you walk through the bush with heightened senses in search of animals.''We were in good hands with Norman Carr Safaris and Robin Pope Safaris the pioneers of the walking safari in Zambia and Africa for that matter. Bush walks can be an absolute thrill, on one of our walks we came close to two elephants who in mid fight began moving towards us crashing through the brush. Our only safe haven was to hide behind a cluster of trees and hope for the best. Needless to say, we lived with a story to tell.''I’d always recommend''packing safari boots''in your bag to protect your feet in the bush.''Our time spent in the bush was enriching for the soul. The ritual and tranquility of sipping a Gin & Tonic while watching the sunset in the bush is unparalleled and we can’t think of many places better than South Luangwa.''Best Time To Visit South Luangwa''There is a stark difference between seasons in South Luangwa. In regards to safari the greatest concentrations of wildlife occur at the hottest and driest months of the year. The dry season begins in April and continues to October. October is often referred to as “suicide month” due to the extremity of the heat before the rains arrive, but is high season and when you will see the highest concentrations of game coming to the river to cool themselves off.''In a basic sense there are two seasons, but from there you could divide it into four. The cool dry season that ranges from April to July and the hot dry that ranges from August to October. Then two seasons of rain starting with frequent showers in November and December that reach a peak rainfall in January to March. We visited in May and even though the bush was still green and thick from a successful rainy season were still able to see plenty of animals.''South Luangwa National Park Fees''Fees are good for 06:00 hours to 18:00 hours – not 24 hours!''Park Fees are as follows:''Zambian Citizens'': 41.70 Kwacha/day''Residents'': $20/day''Foreign Nationals'': $25/day''South Luangwa Wildlife''A harsh contrast between wet and dry season leads to a dense population of animals as they move towards the Luangwa River, one of the few source of water in the park.The result is common leopard sightings in the riverine forest, hippo pods numbering a hundred, and close encounters with the large elephant population. Leopard is the most famous of occurrences and the park is world renowned for its population.''Game density in the park is known to be some of the best in Africa outside of the''Great Migration in the Serengeti-Mara''ecosystem. South Luangwa is home to an assortment of wildlife, vegetation, and birds. 60 different species of animals and over 400 species of birds can be found in the park. Big game is active in the park and there are four of “''the Big Five''.” The rhino was declared extinct in Zambia in 1998.''Other highlights include the puku antelope, the endemic Thornicroft giraffe, Burchell’s zebra, roan antelope, and massive buffalo herds.''The Landscape''It is the Luangwa Valley that brings an end to the Great Rift Valley. The culmination of this is the Muchinga Escarpment forming the northern and western boundaries of the park.''The valley floor is dominated by Savannah woodland. While the majority of the park sits in the basin of the Luangwa Valley below the massive escarpment. Most of the lodges, campsites, and tourism occurs in the east of the park along the Luangwa river and near Mfuwe (the only notable settlement in the area).''Most guests will find themselves in mopane woodlands that are spread throughout the valley floor. Within these woodlands are large pastures that support the grazing animals such as zebra and impala. Exploring these woodlands is a wildlife photographers treat as backgrounds shift rapidly and animals intermix herds of endemic Crawshay’s zebra, Thornicroft giraffe, and Cookson’s wildebeest intermix.''South Luangwa National Park’s Top Lodges''Chinzombo''Operated by an amazing safari company,''Norman Carr Safaris,''Chinzombo is easily the most luxurious safari lodge in Zambia. The lodge blends between modernity and bush with grace. As each villa has a private pool, air conditioned bed canopy, WiFi, bathtub, shower, lounge, and outdoor patio.''The star of the show is not forgotten. As the villa blends right into the environment with a wrap around mesh tent flap that provides the best alarm clock we’ve ever had – sunrise.\xa0Staying in one their six villas feels like a dream.''We were never uncomfortable in our villa with''eco-friendly toiletries'', coffee table books to pass the time, and staff happy to deliver us whatever we need. On one evening we were delighted to return to our room to find a candlelit dinner for two. That night we had a romantic three-course meal while hippos joined us munching on the riverbank grass.''The views over the Luangwa River, a wildlife hotspot, are fantastic and it was difficult to want to leave our villa. Animals frequent the camp with lions, elephants, and various antelope being regular visitors.''A highlight of the lodge has to be the main lounge and dining area. It sits on an elevated deck open on all sides to the bush. Interior decoration has the perfect blend of eclectic safari and modern amenities. The centerpiece is the fireplace that sticks out on a landing with large rounds couches perfect to enjoy a nightcap.''The history of the Norman Carr Safaris only added to the romance of being on safari. Norman Carr established South Luangwa’s first safari camp in 1950 and were paramount in creating photographic safaris in Zambia and Africa. They are also one of the first companies to develop the walking safari. Norman Carr is known for having some of the best safari guides in the business and that was apparent on our stay. Brian, our guide at Chinzombo, was one of the best guides we have had in all of Africa and we were stoked to have his knowledge and share his passion for the bush on each of our game drives and walking safaris.''Luangwa River Camp''Luangwa River Camp''lies within an ebony grove on the banks of the Luangwa River directly across from the game rich area known as the Luangwa Wafwa. The Wafwa\xa0is an oxbow lagoon famous for the large concentrations of game that come for a drink in the dry season. \xa0The camp is private with only five villas so time spent in camp is relaxing and intimate.''Suites are rustic and spacious featuring a massive sunken bathtub. All of your needs are provided for in the room with a full laundry service and lounge.\xa0Rooms sit at ground level and sleeping in the rooms at night feel allowed us to draw a connection to the bush. Each room is individually decorated with a few small touches and splashes of color to differentiate them from one another.''The central lodge building is a large concrete structure with massive pillars and a small concrete infinity pool to cool down on those hot days. The whole deck is elevated and provides views down to the wildlife show at the river during the dry season.''Dinners and lunches are served family style and guests sit at a communal dining table. The waitstaff were wonderful and always greeted us with a smile. Breakfast is the classic bush breakfast around a fire on the riverbank. For me standing barefoot on the banks of Luangwa River with a cup of coffee in hand was pure bliss.''Robin Pope is well known for their walking safaris and offers the activity as well as driving and boat cruises (when in season) as activities. We had wonderful game drives in the park with our guide.''What’s a typical day on safari in the South Luangwa like?''05h30 – Wake up call''06h00 – Light bush breakfast''06h30 – Depart on morning activity. We recommend doing walking safaris in the morning as after about 9:00 temperatures will get too hot to walk.''11h30 – Return from morning activity and get ready for lunch.''12:30 – Siesta time! Now is the perfect time to relax, read a book, or jump in the pool''15h30 – Afternoon tea and coffee''16h00 – Head out on afternoon activity. Usually accompanied with sundowner drinks''19h30 – Return from afternoon activity and relax with drinks before dinner.''20h00 – Dinner time!''22h00 – Sleep! It’s been a long day on safari''Yellow Zebra Safaris''Our safari to''South Luangwa safari holiday''was all handled by Yellow Zebra Safaris. They’re experts and professionals in the safari industry and were named Europe’s Leading Safari Company multiple times by the World Travel Awards. Everything from the moment we landed in Lusaka was handled and we were able to just sit back and relax. After doing so much of Africa independently it was a pleasure to work with a professional safari company.''Essential Items To Pack For A Safari In Zambia''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. In peak dry season there is little to provide shade, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler.''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the on my South Luangwa safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''General Info for traveling in Zambia''The capital of Zambia is Lusaka, and is one of the main entrance points into the country. We flew to Lusaka from Nairobi and stayed at the beautiful''Latitude 15 hotel''before we made way for our safari.''The main currency in Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Although USD is accepted at most safari lodges. Many places in Zambia do not accept credit card.''Check to see if you need a visa to enter Zambia.''Americans can expect to pay $50 for a 30 day visa, or if traveling to Zambia and Zimbabwe they can get a Uni-visa for $50 good for both countries for 30 days. Visas can usually be purchased on arrival although you do have the option to get an''e-visa beforehand.''We found most Zambians to be extremely friendly, with many in the tourism sector being able to speak excellent English.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Read Next:''A Kafue National Park Guide: Zambias Forgotten Park''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''The Ultimate Lower Zambezi National Park Guide''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''July 29, 2017''All You Need to Know About South Luangwa National Park''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''It was our first time in Sub-Saharan Africa. I had dreamed of traveling across Africa ever since''The Lion King''. However, the moment we arrived I was nervous to be in''Johannesburg, South Africa''. What if we were carjacked? What if I got killed by a hippo? What if I contracted a life-threatening\xa0disease no one had ever heard of? What if I were to get lost in the wild?''We arrived without a plan or clue to what we were doing. One year later, Cameron and I have driven through South Africa, Mozambique, Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Botswana, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, and Kenya in our''trusty Land Cruiser.''It was only a fraction of the African continent. After all, the continent includes 54 countries all with their own history, culture, and languages. It is a fascinating place to travel and should be your next destination. Disease, wildlife, crime, poor roads these are all safety concerns that any first-timer to Africa. In our experience that should not be a deterrent to travel in Africa.''You’re scared of Africa because…''The Malaria''Malaria is like the boogeyman of Africa. It is a life-threatening disease attributed to a parasite carried by mosquitos. Malaria is a risk throughout sub-Saharan Africa, especially in populated areas. The symptoms of malaria are flu-like (chills, fevers, nausea). We’ve been told by anyone that has had it that it pretty much feels like you’re dying. It’s a''serious''disease that can be deadly if left untreated and kills nearly''3000 children a day, mainly from sub-Saharan Africa.''Preventative drugs are available such as''Doxycycline''and''Malarone''. Doxycycline does not produce crazy dreams, costs less than Malarone, but does lead to sun sensitivity. Malarone is more effective in prevention, can be used as a cure, but it is more costly and leads to vivid dreams and sometimes upset stomachs. One should note that neither of these drugs can fully prevent malaria.''Here is our experience with malaria and prevention:''On arrival in''South Africa'', Cameron went to a private doctor in Johannesburg to get a Yellow Fever jab and a doctor’s consultation. An hour later he had a full bag of prescriptions from a specialized doctor and immunization to Yellow Fever. That visit cost him\xa0$86 – yes that’s American dollars. Compare that to $260 at a dodgy public clinic in the states (or $880, which is what my doctor charged my insurance in the US).\xa0When it came a malaria cure we picked up a box of Artemether and Lumefantrine for $3 over the counter in Mozambique, just in case we were to contract the disease.''In the twelve months of travel\xa0around Africa, we only took doxycycline for 3 weeks along the shores of''Lake Malawi in Malawi.''We were there during the rainy season and because malaria in Malawi (known as Cerebral malaria) is the deadliest form we thought best to be careful. On average we wear long sleeves and pants at night, sleep under mosquito nets, apply bug spray when appropriate, and ask locals if the mosquitos are prevalent\xa0and have never had malaria.''With the necessary precautions you can protect yourself against malaria, and it shouldn’t be a reason to avoid traveling to Africa. It’s always worth doing your research to see if where you’re traveling to is a malaria zone and find out which season you will be traveling. Mosquitos need water to breed so dry season is generally malaria free. We’ve met''tourists in Cape Town''whose doctors led them to spend\xa0upwards of $2000 for medicines for Africa, and they were never in a malarial zone. Don’t be those people.''The Roads''It’s true, some of the roads in''Africa are downright awful''. If you’re''planning to self-drive in Africa''then the safety and condition of the roads are a genuine concern. While we did drive on the worst roads of our lives, our journey from South Africa to Uganda was largely on paved roads. Granted, they just weren’t in the best shape.''I would say that South Africa and Rwanda had some of the best roads and Zambia, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, and even Namibia (bad corrugation) had some of the worst. \xa0If you’re nervous about driving on the roads in Africa try to download the app''Maps.me''for routing advice and join the Facebook group''Overlanding Africa.''The Facebook group is full of people who have overlanded the continent, including us, and can provide current advice on routes and the state of roads.''Just another day on an African “road”''The People and General Safety''At first, when we looked at traveling around Africa I consulted a few friends that had been on an overland tour. “Africa isn’t safe, haven’t you heard about (fill in the blank),” they would say. Events like the''Westgate Shopping Mall attack''in Nairobi, the''Chibok School Kidnappings in Nigeria'', and''UN worker kidnappings''in the Congo really stick in the back of peoples heads when they are figuring out where to travel.''It doesn’t help that hearing “''Rwandan Genocide''” and “''Idi Amin''” still make many people shiver with fear in a not so distant history. Little mystery as to why so many people get nervous for their safety in Africa.''You may have also seen a''movie or two about Africa''that depicts lawlessness and extreme danger. While there are countries across the continent that are not safe to travel at the moment, this certainly isn’t true for all of 54 countries in Africa. Actually, for the most part, we felt safer in Africa than parts of the United States and Europe.''Don’t believe me?''Visions of Humanity''can agree with me! They list Botswana, Namibia, Zambia, and Tanzania as more peaceful than the United States. While there are some nations that I would not advise traveling to it’s important to realize the whole continent is not some giant war-zone as depicted by the mainstream media.''We always felt welcomed in Africa by the people of each and every country. Children greet us with waves and smile and we’ve had mothers run to us with their babies in tow smiling. Usually, people are very curious about us, especially in rural villages. In cities, we are always treated as friends, and in general, locals are just very happy that we chose to visit their country.''Getting Mangos in Zambia''The Internet''The internet in Africa shouldn’t scare anyone from coming, but for those that need to be online for business purposes – I understand. Before landing on the continent my expectations for the internet speeds in Africa were low. I wasn’t sure if we would be able to stay connected outside of major cities.''I’ve touched more on the''internet situation in Africa here''. If you are just coming to Africa for a two to three week holiday you will be more than fine with the internet speeds. We’ve only stayed in a few lodges in Africa that didn’t have any access to internet. Most holiday goers will have the connection abilities to check email, post to Facebook, and Skype call home. If you are doing more of the''overland and camping''thing like we did, I would advise picking up a local sim card at the airport and loading it with data so you can stay connected on the go.''No internet near Mt. Kilimanjaro – but who cares!?''The Wildlife''Sometimes, it’s hard to understand why anyone would want to head to Africa when there are just so many animals that can kill humans. Lions are not exactly friendly and although elephants are considered “gentle giants” they can and do squash a human in an instant. Some may read about''lion attacks''and''elephant encounters''and swear off the continent as a whole. The reality of these wildlife interactions usually has some aspect of human error. Don’t go swimming or hang out on the banks of the Zambezi River, respect animals personal space, and don’t walk around wildlife areas alone without a torch at night.\xa0At the end of the day, animals attack when they feel threatened.''It’s worth noting that the majority of human deaths caused by animals occurs to locals. Sadly, it is the people that live with the''African wildlife''every day that are more susceptible to hippo attacks, snake bites, and elephant confrontations. The chance of a tourist getting hurt by a wild animal is slim. Most tour operators and lodges take safety measures to ensure a safe trip to Africa for their guests.''That’s one full lion''The Heat''It’s always hot in Africa, right? Not exactly. Africa is diverse with tall mountain ranges, vast savannah, coastal regions, and lush rainforests. There are also two main seasons in Africa – dry and rainy. No matter the terrain or season the African heat is no reason to avoid traveling Africa.''We’ve spent cold nights in Tanzania only to be sweating off 10 lbs out in the sun the very next day. We’ve hiked high into the jungle for''gorilla trekking''only to find ourselves reaching for our jackets. The dry season is generally hotter than the rainy season, but we have found that in many parts of Africa the rainy season, although cooler, is humid. It’s important to''research beforehand about what to wear.''It should be based on where you are headed and season.''Generally, any trip to Africa should be accompanied by a jacket for early mornings and night time. Layers are great so that you can get adjust to rapid shifts in temperature by midday.''Planning your trip to Africa may seem overwhelming, but rest assured that Africa is ready for you. Are you ready for it?''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in \xa0Africa:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Tours around Africa:''If you’re not much of a driver check out some of these''African tours.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Read Next:''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''Here’s Why You Shouldn’t Be Afraid to Travel Africa''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Natasha''We went to Nairobi National Park for one reason – a photo. The photo is\xa0a familiar scene in Africa. \xa0A lion laying in the grass making\xa0eyes at the photographer. The backdrop to this\xa0photo is one of the largest cities in Africa. The moment we saw it we knew we had to go to Nairobi National Park.''I won’t lie and say it’s the most beautiful park or the best place to go on safari. However, Nairobi National Park is the only major National park located in a city center. It’s amazing that within one hour you can go from a hip coffee shop to photographing African Buffalo, a feared member of the''“Big Five” animals''.''In some ways Nairobi National Park is a microcosm of Africa. Nairobi is hurtling towards the modern world while the population continues to explode, the wealth divide deepens, land degradation is at an all time high, and surrounded by the chaos is the African wildlife.''A Nairobi National Park Guide''Our Weekend in Nairobi National Park''When doing research about our''first trip to Kenya''and Nairobi we came across''Ololo Lodge''in the Nairobi National Park. In search of the perfect escape from Nairobi we knew that hiding away in a skyscraper hotel is okay for a day or two, but we were in search of something that would connect us to the roots of Nairobi. After all, Nairobi and Safari used to go hand and hand, but the buzzing metropolis of today makes that seem a distant memory.''For us a safari in Nairobi is not your standard destination. It’s not something worth traveling to specifically to Nairobi for. Instead it acts as a wonderful precursor, afterward to a safari in Kenya, or weekend escape from the city center. In fact, the proximity to Nairobi’s Wilson Airport makes it the perfect stopover in between bush flights to the''Masai Mara''or Amboseli. After spending a few weeks hopping around Kenya we made an end in Nairobi National Park before flying off to our next safari destination.\xa0The highlight of our time in the park was enjoying our lodge and spotting black rhino in the park.''Checking into Ololo Lodge''Situated on the quiet Southern border to the park is Ololo Lodge. The safari lodge is owned and operated by an Australian farming family. Their roots are evident in the lodge with fresh produce coming from their garden and safari traditions that are not missed. Ololo Lodge has the feel of a bed breakfast with a lovely garden and earthy tones in the interiors that one would not expect to find in Africa.''The lodge’s location makes it secluded from the main part of the capital city. Rebuilt from a traditional farmhouse the property is filled with charm and colonial character. Their rooms range from lovely stable rooms, two suites in the main lodge, and individual safari style bandas.\xa0We spent our time between game drives relaxing on our deck reading a book or walking around the gardens overlooking the river. Those eager to explore the park can just take the short walk across a wire bridge directly into Nairobi National Park.''Our room was the tower room. It was light, airy, comfortable, and featured two decks. One of which is accessible via a spiral staircase and overlooks the whole park. Mornings in Africa should be prized and we took good care to savor them from the comfort of our private deck as the day broke. After daybreak guests can enjoy breakfast on the grounds while birdlife darts by from the park. A highlight at breakfast were their farm fresh mushrooms, grown on site, and homemade muesli.''Ololo Lodge can cater to outside guest looking to enjoy their garden restaurant. However, it is based on availability at the lodge so outside guests should call in advance to make reservations. It makes for the perfect Nairobi weekend escape for residents and business travelers.\xa0The lodge main lounge is a large airy room with a central fireplace and is the ideal place to relax on chilly evenings around Nairobi. WiFi can be found throughout the property and we had a good signal on our mobile phone so business travelers can rest assured knowing they''can stay connected here.''We loved the lodges approach to sustainability. Disposable plastic water bottles are commonplace in hotel rooms and even lodges; here rooms receive a fresh supply of water every day in a ceramic pitcher. It’s steps like this that may be small, but can make massive strides towards waste reduction. This is addition to their large gardens helping supply the restaurant help lessen the lodges environmental impact.''Overall, we found Ololo Lodge to be an amazing place to stay when on safari in Kenya. Their proximity to Nairobi Wilson, only a thirty minute driving through the park, make them a clear winner for those looking to escape the west and immerse themselves in wild Africa while still close to the city.''Nairobi National Park History''Nairobi National Park was the very first park in Kenya. Opened in 1946, the park is the oldest national park in Africa. History in the park expands much past 1946 to the earliest days of Nairobi when settlers from England first arrived and pushed the animals to the South and East of the city.''By 1932 the animals had nearly vanished from the plains of the park. Alarmed by the vanishing wildlife''Mervyn Cowie''began campaigning for the formation of a protected park. Finally, it became official and Mervyn was named the director of the parks service.''The Park Geography''The park is 28,963 acres large. By most accounts, this is small in comparison to many of Africa’s national parks.\xa0The park has a fence on its North, West, and Eastern boundaries. The Southern border is the Mbagathi River.''The park is largely dry, but shares a similar climate with Nairobi. Weather here is dry and hot from January to March. April usually is the onset of the rainy season that lasts until June. During the rainy season weather can be similar to spring with cool evenings and mornings and periodic rain showers. From June onwards the rains become less common and the weather cools off. Many refer to this climate as the perpetual spring.''Nairobi Safari Wildlife''Nairobi National Park is likely the best place to find rhino in Africa. While\xa0the''Kenyan Wildlife Services''will not directly release the Rhino population consensus it is used as a haven for the besieged animal and contains the largest population of them in Kenya. We saw a ton of Black Rhino with just our first day in the park! If you miss the Black Rhino in the larger parks of Kenya it’s worth a Nairobi safari to see this fleeting animal in the wild.''Other regulars in the park include lion, giraffe, zebra, wildebeest, and buffalo. In all, Nairobi National Park has roughly 100 mammals. It’s worth nothing that the park is absent of the African elephant. Birdlife in the park, as in many places throughout Africa is wonderful with nearly 400 endemic and migratory birds that pass through the park’s boundaries.''Nairobi National Park Entrance Fees''Nairobi National Park is open all year round. While, the national park fees are high for foreigners they are the cheapest out of all the Kenyan National Parks. The park fees between citizen and foreigners are exorbitant at almost 1o times more expensive.''Citizen'': Adult –''430 KSH''per day / Children –''215 KSH''per day''Resident'': Adult –''1030 KSH''per day / Children –''515 KSH''per day''Non-resident:''Adult – $''43 USD''per day /Children – $''22 USD''per day''Nairobi National Park Tour''There are a number of ways to visit Nairobi National Park. We chose to go with one of the most luxurious and stay at Ololo\xa0Lodge, but there are more affordable options. Visitors can hire a local safari operator for a Nairobi National Park tour. This means going on safari with either a private vehicle or in a shared safari vehicle.''A private vehicle is more expensive, but due to the prevalence of cheap safari vans (or “vanderbeest,” as the locals say), there are deals to be had. A Nairobi safari with one of these vans goes for roughly''$110 USD''for the vehicle, driver, and fees. That price does not include individual guest park entrance fees.''If you choose to go with one of the more traditional safari operators offering tours in a game viewer in the park expect to pay about''$60 USD''per person for a half day safari. This does not include the park entrance fees. You can book your tour in the park here and they’ll pick you up from your hotel!''There is also the ability to take a shuttle bus offered by KWS on Sundays at 2:00 p.m. The park services drive guest around in a big bus for a 2 1/2 hour tour.\xa0It’s worth noting that weekends in the park can get very busy with locals in vans and their personal vehicles so we recommend paying a little more as a foreigner since park fees are already high.''Nairobi Safari Essentials''There are a few things that one should pack for an African Safari:''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. The equator passes right through Kenya, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler.''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the on my Nairobi safari. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. Once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''Read More:''10 Kenya Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''A Safari in Nairobi National Park • All You Need to Know!''was last modified:''January 5th, 2018''by''Cameron''After driving''25,000 miles across Africa''in a truck older than ourselves it was time to hit the reset button. We landed in Nairobi ready for a new take on Africa. Instead of driving and camping, we would take bush flights\xa0and stay\xa0in hotels like Hemingways Nairobi.''We entered Kenya with a rush and excitement visiting busy Nairobi for the\xa0first time. Nairobi is not a city for weary travelers, but the historical neighborhood of Karen is a residential enclave with ties to the famous Karen Blixen. So when we found Hemingways Nairobi online and knew it would be the perfect place to recuperate after the long drive from South Africa to Uganda.''Experiencing Hemingways Nairobi''The rooms at''Hemingways Nairobi''we’re the perfect place to throw on the do not disturb sign and order room service! We found ourselves ordering breakfast and dinner in our room while overlooking the Ngong Hills. With lovely gardens and a spacious balcony we took in the atmosphere from our room. While, modern amenities like a trunk with a motorized pop up flat screen \xa0TV and high-speed wifi kept us comfortable. The bathroom featured his and her sinks, a walk-in closet, rainfall shower, and modern bathtub.''There is always tea and coffee in rooms on hand; however, if you don’t feel like doing it yourself each room comes with a butler. The Hemingways butlers are there to make sure each guest is completely comfortable with their stay. Ours was quick to deliver us all our meals, take orders, and bring us fresh tea and coffee.''The main lobby and garden at Hemingways Nairobi are like an oasis for bustling Nairobi. On the weekend the gardens take on a relaxed cafe atmosphere with locals coming to sip mimosas and have brunch in the morning sun. We found ourselves sunbathing by the pool and ordering drinks from the bar upstairs.''Hemingways Nairobi made for the perfect start or stop to a safari in Kenya! The Hemingways Collection also has Ol Seki, in the Naboisho Conservancy\xa0bordering the Masai Mara National Reserve. You can read more about our experience at''Ol Seki here!''Great Day Trips from Hemingways Nairobi in Karen''The suburb named after Karen Blixen is the setting of the famous book and movie''Out of Africa''. We loved our time in Karen\xa0watching the sunrise over the Ngong hills. With all of Nairobi not far from the relaxed suburb we weren’t worried about getting too bored.''Karen Blixen Museum''This is the house where Karen Blixen lived while setting up and operating her coffee farm. Yes, you can close your eyes and just envision those Out of Africa shots here!''Kazuri Beads''Find handmade beads and jewelry at Kazuri Beads! Kazuri beads is an established business that employs disadvantaged Kenyans! They make some amazing products.''The Giraffe Center''You’ve seen the photos of people feeding real live giraffes. The Giraffe Center is about a 10-minute drive from Hemingways Nairobi and has been rescuing orphaned giraffes since the 70’s. The center serves as a learning point for young Kenyan school children and also releases the orphaned giraffes back into the wild. Foreigners are required to pay 1000 Kenyan Shillings to feed and kiss African giraffes!''The Hub''“The Hub” is a beautiful outdoor shopping complex in Karen where you can get clothes, food, coffee, and dinner. It is especially lively on weekends when there is usually an event happening in the large courtyard.''For Your Information''A taxi from the\xa0Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Karen will cost you 3500 KSH. However, Uber is incredibly popular in Nairobi and usually yields cheaper rates.''Hemingways Nairobi is one of the most luxurious properties in Nairobi and the prices reflect that. Room rates start at $500/night with breakfast (in room and at the restaurant) included.''The Brasserie restaurant''is connected to Hemingways Nairobi and serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner. We tried all three meals here and found each one utterly delicious. Make sure to make reservations beforehand, especially on weekends.''For a safari experience right in the city check out''Nairobi National Park!''A Kenyan visa for US citizens costs $50. If you are planning to visit Rwanda or Uganda (or both!) then check out the multiple entry East Africa visa for $100. East Africa visas must be applied for online at least three days in advance and paid for at your port of arrival in USD.''Nairobi usually gets a bad rap for being unsafe''; however, we felt safe in the capital city. Always make sure of your surroundings, don’t venture into unknown neighborhoods, and don’t walk around at night.''Plan Your Trip to Kenya''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Kenya:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Tap water in Kenya is not safe to drink.\xa0If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Remember that Kenya uses the British three prong plug.''Get one before you land''.''Read Next:''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''A Relaxing Weekend at Hemingways Nairobi''was last modified:''June 20th, 2017''by''Natasha''When we first decided we would travel around Africa, we knew that a trip to Kenya could not be missed. After selling our beloved Land Cruiser in Uganda we hopped on a flight over to see what Kenya had to offer. From the plains of the Masai Mara to buzzing\xa0Nairobi to laid back Swahili beach vibes these are the Kenya travel tips to keep in the back of your head.''Kenya Travel Tips''Nairobi isn’t that bad''Nairobi or “Nairobbery” has a strong reputation for being unsafe. Before we landed in Africa years ago I heard terrifying stories\xa0about\xa0visitors in Nairobi. We arrived with very little expectations of the city but were pleasantly surprised with Nairobi. Not only did we feel safe, but the city is packed with hip restaurants, rooftop bars, trendy coffeehouses, and beautiful hotels. Not only that but''Nairobi National Park''is the only national park in the world that lies next to a capital city with other animal refugee and orphanages scattered about the city.''As always – stay out of bad neighborhoods, don’t walk alone at night, and use universal common sense and Nairobi might even become your favorite African city.''Kenya is the Africa you think of''Endless plains of grass, ancient tribal\xa0warriors, and teeming with\xa0wildlife. It’s the Africa of your dreams. If you have been considering\xa0traveling\xa0to Africa for the first time Kenya may be the place for you. Portrayed in countless movies, books, and nature documentaries Kenya is well known.''Education is King''Speaking of African movies, have you checked out the movie “''The First Grader''?” It’s the tale of Kimani Maruge, an 81-year-old man who decides to go to primary school for the first time when the Kenyan government made it free. The story is true and Maruge is considered somewhat of a hero throughout the country. The motivation to learn in Kenya is extraordinary with literacy rates around 85%.''The Economy is B''ooming''While Kenya is still a developing country it’s important to note that it still has the most powerful economy in East Africa. It only took a few days in the countries capital for us to realize the nation is unlike most of its African counterparts.''There is a growing middle class, infrastructure, and a strong business sector. We happened to visit right before the 2017 elections and it seemed most Kenyans were hopefully about the prospect of their country. That being said, the wealth divide in Kenya was also one of the most apparent we have seen in Africa.''Only rivaled with that of South Africa.''Safari Time!''Make sure to pack your bag with your''safari clothes''because if you’re headed to\xa0Kenya you should partake in at least one safari. The name safari even comes from the Swahili word meaning “journey” or “trip.” Whether it be close to the city at Nairobi National Park, the''famous Masai Mara'', Amboseli, or Tsavo. Game spotting here is top notch and the Kenyan Wildlife Service\xa0takes pride in their countries natural landscapes and wildlife.''Kenya is your African movie''Out of Africa''was the best picture winner of 1988, and possibly one of Robert Redford’s best films. The movie was based on Karen Blixen’s account of her time in colonial Kenya. What''other big time movies''are set in Kenya? How about “''I Dreamed of Africa'',” based on Kuki Gallman’s novel. Or “The Constant Gardener” telling the tale of pharmaceutical corruption…yup that was Kenya too! Obviously, not all movies about Africa are set in Kenya, but a large number of those dramatized Hollywood flicks are. If you want to live our an African movie then grab your gramophone and head to Kenya.''Money matters''The Kenyan Shillings is the currency in Kenya and is currently valued at\xa0100:1 with the US Dollar. USD newer than 2006 is widely accepted at many establishments around the country. We also have\xa0no problem\xa0using our credit card in Nairobi. I wouldn’t call Kenya a cheap destination – far from it actually. National park fee and conservancy fees can range anywhere between $40-$120 per day for foreigners. If you plan on staying in a lodge, hotel, or going out to eat you can expect to''pay a high price for those luxuries as well.''The “cheap” hotel we regularly use in Nairobi costs around a $100 USD a night.''Boda Boda’s, Piki-Piki’s, and Matatu’s''No those aren’t the names of some far off African inspired cocktail, they are some of the main modes of transport in Kenya.''Boda Bodas''are bicycles used to get short distances while Piki-piki’s are motorcycle taxis. These operate in smaller towns and cities and are a popular way to get around.''Watch the Boda Boda’s and piki piki’s weave in and out of traffic and get passengers to destinations in half the time that a car can. Matatus are the cheapest and most efficient way to get around for locals. Matatus or minibuses are\xa0hard to miss with blaring music, custom paint jobs, and neon lights.''None of these modes of transport are the safest option by any means, but they are fun and flexible and give you an opportunity to get more into local Kenyan life.''Those Coastal Vibes''Kenya isn’t just good for safaris, but the Kenyan Coast also boasts white sand beaches and is the perfect place to come for some peace and quiet on the Indian Ocean. Malindi, Watamu,''Diani Beach'', and Lamu all have that Swahili vibe that can also be found on the''Tanzanian coast''. Some of the best food in Kenya can be found on the coast, as well as some of the most interesting architecture and culture.''Jambo!''Like Tanzania'', the main language in Kenya is Swahili and learning a few of the basic phrases will definitely enhance your experience with the locals. If you venture into the west of the country you will without a doubt come across the Masai people. The Maasai all speak Maa, but most understand Swahili as well. However, in Nairobi, at lodges, tourist attractions, and everyday people will likely speak English. It’s even common for many Kenyan’s to speak a mix of both Swahili and English when conversing.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Kenya''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Kenya:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Adaptors:''Kenya uses the''three prong British plug''. Make sure you have one for visiting!''Guide Book:''The internet in Africa isn’t always the greatest, that’s why we travel with a''Lonely Planet guidebook''for those wireless nights.''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''10 Kenya Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''was last modified:''January 9th, 2018''by''Natasha''While most are familiar with\xa0the island of Zanzibar or Kenya’s coastal city of Mombasa; it’s likely only those who have visited Kenya know\xa0of Diani Beach.''Just 30 km’s south of Mombasa is a 10 kilometer stretch of beautiful white sand. The town boasts a great\xa0coral reef, primates, Kinondo culture, a wide range of accommodation, and the warm\xa0Indian Ocean. We took to the\xa0Kenyan coast to uncover the best Diani Beach hotels.''The Best Diani Beach Hotels''Kinondo Kwetu''Kinondo Kwetu''is a\xa0barefoot boutique paradise. Here you’ll find healthy food, a gym, large lap pool, quiet beach, and an inviting atmosphere. Our time spent at Kinondo Kwetu was strictly\xa0no shoes (our own rules). The beach lodge is situated\xa0away from the busy strip of hotels on Diani Beach, instead it is just south of what is Kinondo Beach.''The Bohemian lodge has received various accolades for its work in environmental sustainability and community development. That scores big for us as we’re always in search of to''reduce our footprint through eco friendly products''and businesses. This is driven\xa0by a\xa0young Swedish family who moved to Kenya over a decade ago to set up their lodge. Since then it has grown\xa0from a handful of cottages to a secret escape for families and honeymooners on the Kenyan coast.''Kinondu Kwetu has nine different types of rooms ranging from ocean facing rooms\xa0to family cottages. There are two pools – one for adults and one pool large enough to hold scuba diving lessons. The property is littered\xa0with sun beds, unique places to eat, and even a sauna for those crazy\xa0Scandinavians.\xa0They also have their own stable for guests that want to go horseback riding on the beach, many kayaks, and even a slack rope to practice your balance (Cameron never left this rope).''We enjoyed relaxing next to the ocean during the day, getting active in the\xa0gym or with the activities, and then enjoying an evening in one of their two lounges with jazz music always on the radio. The lounges, as well as the rooms, are beautifully decorated and draw on themes from around the Kenyan coast. This\xa0new lodge has an old soul.''All meals are included in the rate at Kinondo Kwetu and are usually seafood inspired. Most\xa0meals have focus on healthy ingredients with some dishes being made from scratch! We found the\xa0staff here are extremely well trained, attentive, and actually care about the comfort and happiness of their guests.''At more than $500 a night, Kinondo Kwetu is one of the more expensive properties on this list, but with the price, you get a\xa0personalized feel, excellent staff, privacy, and true relaxation near busy Diani Beach. This property is family run and is the perfect place for families or\xa0couples to come upon completion of their safari in Kenya. We left with the property being one of our favorites in all of Africa, don’t be surprised if this one makes our top lodges list in the future.''What makes Kinondo Kwetu a best Diani Beach hotel?''Personal family feeling, superb atmosphere, welcoming staff, general cleanliness, relaxation, and delicious healthy food.''The Sands at Nomad''The Sands at Nomad''is located on one of the main stretches of Diani Beach amongst much of the local life in the area. This resort is a medium-sized property good for getting to know people but retains some intimacy\xa0in their 26 acres of forest. The Sands at Nomad has 18 rooms ranging from basic double rooms\xa0to beach front cottages. All of them feature air condition, WiFi, and a fridge which may not seem like much to some people; however, once you land on the Kenyan coast you may change your mind as the humidity is intense!''Stepping out of the rooms you’ll find the white sand beach or the pool, both are perfect for hot days. We found the staff, amenities, and location of The Sands at Nomad to all be ideal, but the real award goes to their restaurant.Nomad Restaurant is right on the resort property just steps away from all rooms.''Nomad Restaurant has the idyllic beach front views complete with a bar, ice cream parlor, pizza oven, and even a sushi station. The restaurant is open to both resort goers and to the public. We had the half board option at The Sands which I would highly recommend. Each night half board guests are invited to order''any''three courses off the menu. We tried a mix of Japanese cuisine, seafood, and soups and all of them were delicious.''Rates at The Sands start at $150 per night and go up from there based on room choice and food packages. The Sands is a good place to hang out with kids as well as a group of friends looking for\xa0a great time on Diani Beach.''Why is Sands at Nomad one of the best Diani Beach hotels?''The ala-carte restaurant, service, and room amenities like strong WiFi and air conditioning.''Swahili Beach''If there is a mega resort on Diani Beach – Swahili Beach is it.''At Swahili Beach'', bigger is better, and that’s exactly how you feel when you first walk through the large Arabic styled doors. Located right off the main road in Diani Beach, Swahili Beach was built with Arabic and Swahili architecture in mind. The decor and furnishings at Swahili Beach make you instantly feel as if you are in a Sultan’s palace\xa0centuries ago.''Swahili Beach features more than 60 rooms each comfortable and spacious. All rooms have their own balcony that overlooks the large pool, but I will get to that later. Swahili Beach mainly operates on a half board basis with most meals being served at a buffet style restaurant – Majilis. For those vacationers that want a bit more of a personalized dining experience, Swahili Beach has you covered with their four other restaurants\xa0and bars. There is even a main coffee shop where each day complimentary high tea is served with a collection of assorted cakes and fruits.''So what is there to do at this Diani Beach Resort? Well, there is a monstrous pool that probably beats out all the pools in Zanzibar for the largest I have ever seen. The pool literally cascades down a hill to the beachfront where guests can then walk out to the Indian Ocean and take in the views.''Swahili Beach is another property on Diani Beach where the staff was friendly and helpful despite catering to such large groups of tourist. I’ve also been told that Swahili Beach hosts large pool parties and other events so we found it the perfect spot for a “friendscation.” Starting at $120 per night they have great rates specifically during special holidays when you can get packaged deals.''Why is this one of the best Diani Beach Hotels?''Cascading pool, friendly staff, price, large rooms, and Swahili inspired design.''The Sands at Chale Island''What if I told you that just off the Kenyan Coast, just a 600m walk away, is an island filled with magnificent birdlife, monkeys, and warm swimming in crystal water? Well, that’s exactly what you get at''The Sands at Chale Island''. The sister property to The Sands at Nomad. Chale Island operates completely independent from its mainland counterpart. Half of the island is a resort and the other half is a sacred protected forest.''The beaches here aren’t littered with beach touts or hunks of seaweed. Instead, they are idyllic for swimming in a warm Indian Ocean paradise and are often frequented by sea turtles. Besides lounging on the beautiful beaches here guests can walk around the entire island at low tide, kayak, and wander among the mangroves. Another great thing to do here is sit in your private beach chairs and listen to the island birds while watching the cheeky colobus monkeys eat berries in front of you.''There are a few different styles of rooms ranging from your standard room, to overwater suites, to one honeymoon banda. We were upgraded to the honeymoon banda which was the most private suite on the island. To say the honeymoon suite is huge is an understatement. With a private lounging area overlooking the ocean and an upstairs lounge, this place was bigger than our old New York apartment. The honeymoon suite was my favorite part of the stay because you could watch both sunrise and sunset all from the comfort of the room.''There are a few pools for the folks that prefer to stay away from the sand, and a bar with live entertainment every night. We also enjoyed the fact that there was somewhat working WiFi throughout the island (seeing as we like to keep up with Instagram). It is important to remember that Chale Island is indeed an island and there is no electricity for the greater portion of the day. At night the property runs on generators. Chale Island even has it’s own time zone, which is set one hour ahead of the real Kenyan time. Personally, we hated the change in time zones as everything was one hour earlier than expected including breakfast, lunch, tea time, dinner, and checkout time. As long as you come prepared for no electricity, your own time zone, and a beach paradise you will love Chale Island.''Chale Island is a best Diani Beach Hotel because…''It’s an island!\xa0This resort is set on its own island so it’s hard not to love that! The privacy of the beach here also makes it the most beautiful we found near Diani Beach.''General Travel Advice for Diani Beach''Check out our''beach packing list''for ideas on what to pack!''Mombasa is 30 km’s north of Diani Beach. The airport is small, but services flights from around Kenya and internationally. We flew to Diani Beach from Nairobi JKIA with Fly540, which is operated by Fly SAX, and had a pleasant experience with them. A cab ride from Mombasa to Diani Beach should cost\xa0no more\xa0than 4000 Kenyan Shillings but always agree on a price beforehand and put your bargaining cap on.''If you want to go on safari in Kenya I can recommend''Nairobi National Park''for the city dwellers, and of course the famous''Masai Mara''for a classic safari experience.''There is a ferry between Mombasa and Diani Beach. Time your ferry arrival time accordingly. We arrived on a Friday night and waited almost two hours to board the ferry with our car. Foot passengers should experience no delay. If you decide to call an Uber to Diani Beach be sure to take note of the ferry. The longer you wait to board the higher your Uber fare goes.''Ukunda Airport is a small airport near Diani Beach. Only 3 km away from the main resorts.''Local matatas, tuk-tuks, and taxi cabs are available for those that wish to explore. The most expensive will be a taxi cab. Always be sure to negotiate a price as the cabbies start insanely high, especially for Mzungus.''Avoid walking along\xa0the beach at night.''Those looking for a wild party should head to\xa0Forty Thieves Beach Bar & Bistro\xa0for a fun night out.''There is a Diani Beach Shopping Centre for any items you may have left at home. There is also a well stocked Nakumatt Grocery Store for those who wish to cook their own food.''Be sure to check out the\xa0Kaya Kinondo Sacred Forest, which is near Kinondo Kwetu. The forest is culturally significant\xa0and still protected\xa0by the local Kinondo tribe.''If you like Diani Beach, be sure to head to the''island of Zanzibar''or cross the border into''Tanzania and get to Ushongo Beach!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Diani Beach''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Mombasa:''We flew to Mombasa with Fly SAX and had a great experience.''Check flight times with them here.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Adaptors:''Kenya uses the''three prong British plug''. Make sure you have one for visiting!''Guide Book:''The internet in Africa isn’t always the greatest, that’s why we travel with a''Lonely Planet guidebook''for those wireless nights.''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''These Four Diani Beach Hotels Are Amazing''was last modified:''March 19th, 2018''by''Natasha''It is undeniable that the Masai Mara is one of the most well known parks in Africa. My first thoughts of going on safari in Africa were of Kenya and its wide open grasslands. The fact that Kenya is home to the original safari and the Masai Mara is the epicenter of the industry should come as no surprise. Located in the Southwest of Kenya the 1,510 square km Masai Mara National Reserve\xa0is home to an abundance of game including the seasonal wildebeest migration. The migration is the greatest wildlife spectacle\xa0on earth, when\xa0over a million wildebeest cross plains, valleys, and rivers in search of fresh pasture.''A Masai Mara safari is sure to ensure visitors with incredible game viewing all year round. Every day we went out into the park we saw something incredible. I was amazed watching hyena pups\xa0sniff\xa0our\xa0car tires, elephants rub against\xa0our tent poles in the\xa0night, and a pride of lions kill and devour a zebra. Despite being one of the most popular spots to go on safari in Africa the reserve blew us away.''The name Masai Mara comes from the famous Maasai tribe who inhabited the reserve. While, the mara comes from the Maasai word meaning “spotted,” an apt description of the landscape from above. It is a part of the greater Serengeti-Mara ecosystem and shares a border with the famous''Tanzanian national park the Serengeti.''This entire region of the world is tremendous for wild game and is home to millions of large animals. In this guide, we’ll cover the basics to a safari in the reserve.''Masai Mara National Reserve''Our Experience In The Mara''After''finishing up a\xa0six month long drive from Cape Town to Kampala''we could not have been more thrilled to have a safari in the Masai Mara. For once, we were going to sit back, take flights, and let the experts take us around an amazing slice of East Africa. Our expectations\xa0were very high; however, we were not let down. In all our time in Africa, we have\xa0never seen so many big cats. In one day we saw three separate lion prides and kills.''It is\xa0official – safaris have spoiled us. Things like silence, elephants, and starry nights have become common place and it will be hard to tire of these things. Every day we spent out in the game vehicles was enthralling. Most camps we visit\xa0we make the decision to sit a game drive out in order to relax some, but in the Mara we didn’t skip out on single day in the bush. It is also the first park we have been to in Africa where we saw all of the “Big Five,” animals in one day.''To top it all off, some of out best photographs have come from the Mara. Sunsets in the Mara didn’t blow us away due to it being the rainy season. However, the light bouncing off the plains and the open areas with little room to hide makes for''wonderful wildlife photography.''Best Time To Visit Masai Mara''The best time to visit the Masai Mara is in the dry season, late June – October. During this period of time, the game viewing is at its best. The world famous wildebeest migration arrives in July and hangs around until October. The rainy season typically arrives in March and goes on\xa0to May. In full swing, the rainy season will shut some camps down as it is difficult to do game drives with some roads becoming impassable.''A wonderful time to book a safari in the Masai Mara is the shoulder seasons around Jan-Feb. Visitors will find lower prices and fewer crowds. The rainy season isn’t all bad. Many lodges remain open and offer green season rates which can be up to 50% of their high season rates. Green season in the Mara also brings about the births of many\xa0young animals and fewer crowds. In my opinion it’s always best to visit in shoulder seasons; however, if your end goal is to see the migration expect to find crowds and have deep pockets.''The Mara River and The Mara Triangle''Masai Mara Animals''The park is home to all of the''“Big Five” animals''. The park’s population of Rhino are\xa0under constant threat and have risen back to around 40 after being nearly wiped out in the 80’s. When it comes to cats the park is well known and most visitors will come across prides of lions and cheetah. In nearly a week around the Masai Mara, we observed eight\xa0different lion prides, five\xa0cheetah, and spotted our first serval and African wild cat.''Birdlife in the Masai Mara is abundant with 470 species calling the park home for at least part of the year. We spotted bateleur\xa0eagle, lilac breasted roller, ostrich, crowned crane, lappet faced vulture, pygmy falcon, and secretary birds. One of our favorites, the lilac breasted roller, is also the national bird of Kenya.''It is likely you’ve seen the Mara on the big screen in numerous nature documentaries, TV series, and even movies. BBC’s Big Cat Diaries followed several\xa0big cats around the Masai Mara. Of course, any film buff will be well familiar with Kenya and the Mara from the movie “''Out of Africa.''”''Masai Mara Migration''There are few natural events in the world that can compare to the spectacle that is''The Great Migration''. Between Tanzania and Kenya a massive herd of nearly 1,300,000 wildebeest, 500,000 Thomson gazelle, 200,000 zebra, 97,000 topi, and 18,000 eland migrate in search of fresh grass.\xa0The monstrous herd moves between the Serengeti and the Masai Mara producing an amazing sight.''The migration arrives in the Masai Mara around the beginning of July and around October. If you plan on going expect to pay sky high lodge prices and book well in advanced. The greatest wildlife show on earth draws a crowd. We visited the park in the green season. However,''due to our changing environment'', the rains arrived much later in the year and despite visiting in mid-April we witnessed the first of the rains.''The Landscape''The landscape of the Mara is largely open grasslands with seasonal rivers cutting through. Covering 1,510 square km or 583 square miles the park occupies a small section of the greater Serengeti-Mara ecosystem. At the southern most border of the park lies Tanzania and the Serengeti National Park. The North, West, and Eastern are bordered by Maasai communities who live as pastoralist.''Set inside the Great Rift Valley, the park is considered a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The western border of the park ends at the\xa0Esoit Escarpment which is the western side of the Great Rift Valley. Asides from the rolling grasslands you can also find forested river banks, acacia woodlands, swamps, and thickets.''Masai Mara Plains & The\xa0Esoit Escarpment''Masai Mara Tribe''The Maasai are the ancestral people of the Mara. History remembers them as fierce warriors and tough pastoralist. To this day many lodges around the Mara employ the local Maasai from the communities as their “askari” or security guards. Maasai are well known for their rich cultural heritage. Their deep ties to the wilds of Africa and living around the national parks of Kenya and Tanzania are intertwined with the safari industry. You can find them living all around the Masai Mara reserve and many lodges arrange cultural visits and sell their crafts in camp. We found Masai working in all positions, including our guides, at the camps we stayed at in the Mara.''Masai Mara Lodges''Governor’s Camp''Nearly a century\xa0ago in an exceptional part of the Mara the governors of colonial Kenya had their exclusive camp along the banks of the Mara River. The spot was world renowned for its exceptional game and beauty and was the camp Teddy Roosevelt used on his safaris.''That very spot is now home to''Governor’s Camp'', the first tented camp in the Masai Mara. Over the years the operation has expanded and it is the largest we have stayed in\xa0with nearly 37 tents. Although, the charm is not lost as the camp feels spacious and the river forest acts as a natural barrier between guest’s tents. Many tents either face out to the Mara River or to the Masai Mara plains and the tranquility is not lost.''Governor’s Camp Canvas Tent In The Masai Mara''The tents themselves are all canvas and the sounds of the Mara spill right into the room. Grunts of hippos, roars of lions, and calls of hyena are a nightly occurrence. These animals\xa0also frequent the unfenced camp, and we even awoke one night to an elephant rubbing against our tent poles. This provides guests\xa0a real sense of being in the wild, but never too close to danger with the ever present Maasai security on hand.''Modern amenities are not withheld in the tents, all the tents include WiFi, flush toilets, and hot showers. The beds are comfortable with hot water bottles waiting under the covers for those chilly nights. While\xa0the\xa0main bar has a large deck that extends out over the river with comfortable seating.''Game viewing around the lodge is exceptional and arguably some of the best in Africa. At the time of our visit, the camp was surrounded by literally thousands of zebra. They covered the landscape in stripes of white and black. We found cheetah, lion, and elephants daily. To our\xa0surprise, despite being in the middle of the Mara we saw few other vehicles that were not from our camp.''Governors operates several camps within the Mara including Little Governor’s in the Mara Triangle, Il Moran, or their\xa0exclusive Private Camp. They also run Governor’s Hot Air Balloon safari, which is arguably the''most magical thing you can do when in the on safar''i.''Cottar’s 1920s Camp''At''Cottar’s 1920s Camp''guests are transported back in time to the essence of the original safari. Their guide on this journey is Calvin Cottar. The Cottar\xa0family has been guiding guests around Kenya since those early days. They are the “safari family,” and have guided a long list\xa0of celebrities, royalty, and aristocrats over a century of operating in Kenya.''Taking up the reigns of his family heritage Calvin and his wife built\xa0the Cottar’s 1920s Camp and formed the Olderikesi Conservancy. The 22,000-acre concession is exclusive to the camp and borders both the Serengeti and Masai Mara.\xa0Game drives around the conservancy also dip into both parks providing a real sense of adventure in pursuit of wild game.''Meanwhile, the camp is filled with authentic antiques, family photos, and artifacts from a century of safaris now used decoration for the main lounge and tents. Tents at the 1920s camp are a throwback to the former golden era of safari with all the adventure, romance, and atmosphere. If there is one camp to live out the movie “Out of Africa” this is the one. The large white canvas tents roll up to reveal sweeping views down to the Serengeti and Masai Mara. The beds are four poster and a working gramophone sits casually on an antique trunk. Bathrooms are ensuite and a wood fired hot water heater ensures guest always have a hot shower.''Experiences on offer here are unique and luxurious. Guests can partake in bush walks, game drive\xa0in the family’s 1940 Rolls Royce, bush dinners, spa services (every tent receives a complimentary 30-minute massage), and even a canvas tub bush\xa0bath. So make sure you have some nice outfits and a good pair of''safari boots''packed in your bag.''Trends in the safari business appear to ensure that guests do not go without modern amenities these days. As with the other camps, we stayed in the Mara WiFi was in the rooms. It was a nice change as lodges are moving the internet out of the main lounges to encourage socializing. Dinners at Cottars were wonderful with family style seating and alcoholic drinks included.''Cottar’s 1920s Camp has been featured in many editorials and\xa0it is widely considered one of the best safari camps in Africa. In conjunction with the stunning safari modern bush villa, the Cottars property is a clear winner around the Masai Mara.''Hemingway’s Ol Seki''Located on the award winning Naboisho Conservancy,''Hemingway’s Ol Seki''offers guest an amazing\xa0wildlife experience. The camp is intimate with\xa0ten\xa0tents perched on an escarpment. Tents are massive\xa0and modern with canvas all around including two massive family tents. The bathrooms and luggage area are large and we always had hot water. We could have used a bit more interior decoration in the tent and found the “daybed” to be out of place and too large.''The main lounge was lovely and the perfect spot to have sundowners, read a book, or socialize. It was decorated with leather couches, large quilted rugs, and plenty of coffee table books to enjoy an afternoon between game drives. Ol Seki overlooks a manmade watering hole that was frequented by various antelope and hyena in the night. While\xa0the\xa0main deck sits on a large rocky outcrop that made for a fantastic spot to watch the sunset and have a romantic fireside dinner.''We loved the game drives in Naboisho and our two Maasai guides, Rafael and Patrick, were fantastic. Our\xa0guides came from the conservancies guiding school and\xa0they were very familiar on their own land. Their passion for guiding and wildlife was evident and we found them to be our favorite guides in the Masai Mara. Sundowners, game drives, and morning coffee with them was a treat.''Ol Seki works as a great camp in conjunction with''Hemingways Nairobi''. They are well situated in a wonderful private conservancy and have all the amenities to ensure a comfortable safari.''Camping In The Mara''It is possible to camp on your own in the Masai Mara. The Mara Conservancy offers three basic public campsites and five private campsites. The public campsites operate on a first come first serve basis and take no reservations. \xa0While the private campsites are open to the public via reservation. All campsites require the hiring of two-night guards for 2,000 KSH each.''Public Campsite Cost: $30 pp a night''Private Campsite Cost: $40 pp a night''You can find our more info such as booking and GPS coordinates''on the Mara Triangle website.''Masai Mara Park Fees''Non-Resident staying inside the park:''Adult – US$ 70 //\xa0Children \xa0– US$ 40''Non-Resident staying outside the park:''Adult\xa0– US$ 80 //\xa0Children \xa0-US$ 45''For East African Citizens:''Adult – Ksh. 1000 // Children and Students – Ksh. 200''East African Residents:''Adult – Ksh 1,200 // Children and Students– Ksh 300''How To Get To The Mara''Bush Flight To The Mara''The best way to get to the Mara is without a doubt a bush flight.\xa0Bush flights are carried out by light aircraft\xa0that can land on the various dirt runways around the Mara. Governor’s Aviation dropped us off right at camp with the airstrip only 10 minutes away from the Governor’s Camp.''We used Fly-SAX''to get us around most of Kenya. They are a great regional provider offering flights all over Kenya with a number of international destinations. We booked our flight from Entebbe, Uganda to Nairobi via SAX and had a good\xa0experience.''SAX is also the\xa0only company with the commercial rights to land on Cottar’s private air strip. The only other option to arrive at Cottars is via a private plane or lengthy drive in. We booked our flights around Kenya with SAX who flew us into Mombasa and Diani Beach, or Ukunda Airport.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Drive To The Mara''We took one drive to the Mara and it was a long day. From Nairobi,\xa0the\xa0Masai Mara is about six hours away. Once we hit the dirt roads past the town of Narok we were reminded why we''sold our truck in Uganda''. It a long road that is badly corrugated. They are in the process of putting in a new road, but time will tell if they Kenyan government finishes the job. There are a number of budget places and campsites to stay outside of the park and around Narok so you don’t have to pay an arm, leg, and another arm for a safari in the Mara. If you’re looking for a''full budget safari tour from Nairobi this is a great option.''Essential Items To Pack''There are a few things that one should pack for a trip to the Masai Mara.''Safari Hat'': A good hat is both stylish and functional. With the Masai Mara right near the equator, UV rays are intense and can easily burn the unsuspecting traveler.''Shemagh'': I used this a lot in the Masai Mara. Early mornings in the park can be pretty chilly so it helps break the cold. However, once the sun comes out temperatures climb and things get very dusty. So, I use the shemagh to cover my face and electronics.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Packing the''right safari clothes''is always a good idea, but it’s never an essential because you can wear whatever you want.''A''great daypack for travel''is a solid idea to throw your stuff in for game drives and bush flights.''Malaria Around The Masai Mara''People take malaria a little too seriously\xa0in regards to travel in Africa. The Masai Mara is dry and at an elevation. Towards the end of the rainy season mosquitos may be present; however, malaria is very uncommon.\xa0The best defense to malaria is prevention. That means wearing''insect repellant''and long sleeves at night when the mosquitos carrying malaria bite.''Read Next:''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''Here’s Why You Shouldn’t Be Afraid to Travel Africa''10 Books About Africa You Should Read Before You Go''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''All You Need to Know About the Masai Mara National Reserve''was last modified:''January 8th, 2018''by''Cameron''A good safari boot is the one thing that is a must when it comes to safari wear and bushwalks. Sure you can dress up in khaki, leather, leopard print, and dark green, but at the end of the day, it doesn’t matter all that much about''what you wear on safari''if you don’t have the shoe.''However, protecting your feet in the bush is important.''If your safari has plans to do any bush walks in search of the''“Big Five”''picking up a good pair of boots before your trip is a necessity. A good pair of safari boots is not just comfort they are\xa0safe for being in the bush.''What Makes A Great Safari Boot''Everything that comprises a great hiking boot is found in safari boots.''High Ankle'': In our experience, we fully recommend anything with a high ankle. On bush walks you can often walk through thick grass, deep mud, or briars so you must protect your legs. In savannah environments, you face the risk of acacia thorns and ticks while jungle environments bring about deep mud and some of the meanest ants. Then to top it all off, there is always the risk of a poisonous snake when walking in the bush.''Thick Sole:''Those acacia thorns can be brutal. Trust me – I’ve had my fair share of run-ins with them puncturing my shoes. Any good pair of safari boots should have a tough sole that protects the bottom of your feet from a sharp thorn or branch.''Comfort:''Anytime you plan to go for long walks in shoe comfort is a main priority.''Material:''Leather, rubber, or synthetic all have their own advantages. What you pick for your safari boot all really depends on personal preference. I’m a fan of leather boots, and they also have that classic safari look.''Style:''They could be the best boots ever, but if they’re dead ugly I wouldn’t wear them so make sure to pick a pair of safari boots you are happy to be seen in.''Keep in mind, you don’t''need''safari boots!''We spend 90% of our time in Africa wearing sandals! Of course, every “cute” outfit that you see of''safari clothes''involves boots, but the reality is you don’t need them. Most safari guests may not partake in a bush walk. They won’t be self-driving, they won’t be camping, and they’ll likely never have any reason to hop out of the vehicle.''Instead, safari guests ride in the back of a game viewer and participate in activities around camp with no need to be wearing safari boots. However, this guide is for you if you are not one of those people. This guide is for the bushwalkers and individuals who will be spending a lot of time on their feet.''Best Safari Boots''Men’s Safari Boots''Chippewa Apache Boots''These are probably my favorite pair of boots I’ve ever owned. I spent some time looking for the perfect boot brand and \xa0came across Chippewa. They make gorgeous leather boots and they’re all made in the USA. Which, for me, means supporting my own nation and it brings a level of quality when not mass produced cheaply.''The boots are made of a thick soft leather, strong stitching, and they’re extremely comfortable. These boots are tough and perfect for both a safari and life in general. As a tip I’d pick up some''leather treatment to protect''the boot and add a level of water resistance.''Check the prices here!''Red Wing Heritage Iron\xa0Ranger''Red Wing comes in a close second for boot brands in my opinion and they’re also made in the USA. These\xa0boots are both functional and stylish. Designed with quality materials\xa0and solid craftsmanship. Red Wing’s Heritage Iron Ranger’s have a high ankle and steel toe for great protection beyond the bush.''If I was considering a serious self-drive safari into the deep bush I’d go for a pair of steel toe boots. What I love about these boots and the Apaches are they are some of the best damn boots in terms of style, quality, comfort, and longevity. You can’t go wrong with a classic. Now all you need is a hat and a''good camera for safari''.''Check the prices here!''Columbia Newton Ridge Plus II''Not all boots are about the style. These Columbia boots are about practicality and comfort. The Newton Ridge Plus is a blend of leather and synthetic materials good for breathability and waterproofing. Synthetic safari boots may not have the classic look, but they weigh less and have more flexibility than the more expensive leather boots. In fact, most safari guides these days opt for the new style of boots due to their practicality and comfort. With a low price point these boots are a clear winner.''Check the prices here!''Merrell Men’s Moab 2''Merrel is a great boot brand. They specialize in hiking shoes so you know your feet will be comfortable for walking long distances. The boots are a blend of leather, textile, and synthetic. They are waterproof, comfortable, rubber\xa0soles, and high ankles.''The soles themselves are specially designed to grip so in muddy or wet conditions they grip. It’s unlikely you’ll ever go for a bush walk in rainy conditions. I would suggest these boots for someone''going gorilla trekking in the jungle''or if you’re an avid hiker.''Check the prices here!''Vasque\xa0Breeze III Mid GTX''These boots are great boots are well\xa0built and loved by hiking enthusiasts. The soles have thick bottoms that will protect from long acacia thorns, rocks, and dry brush. They’re lightweight as they’re designed as trail shoes and are constructed from Goretex for waterproofing.''Check the prices here!''Women’s Safari Boots''Red Wing Heritage Iron Ranger''I wish Chippewa had a greater option of women’s boots. However, Red Wing does the job with the Women’s Iron Ranger. You know how you know these boots are classics? They look great on both Men and Women. They’re\xa0rugged, chic, and sexy on both sexes. To me, it all comes down the superb leather they use to construct their boots. When you buy a classic pair of boots like these you’re making an investment in your feet.''Check the prices here!''Dr. Marten’s Pascal Combat Boot''The Pascal Combat Boot has been a fashion staple for decades now. Combined with both a classic combat boot look, solid design, and comfort these boots are great for a bush walk. A large selection of styles and colors ensure you can choose whatever suits you mood. After all,''women’s safari clothes''do not need to be all khaki and leather. The long history and great build quality means the boots should also hold up against the elements. I wouldn’t recommend them for a hard adventurer, but their more than enough for the average safari.''Check the prices here!''Merrell Women’s Moab Ventilator 2 Mid''These aren’t the best\xa0looking shoes in the world, but they’re nowhere near a pair of crocs. Tasha spent months trying on different hiking shoes and finally settled on the Moab Ventilator and has''been wearing them ever since''. They are well constructed and have held up well over the years. \xa0The Moab’s are well padded, comfortable, and for about a $20 different you can get the Gortex version (waterproof). Boots like these are great for people who need comfort and looking for a good hiking boot.''Check the prices here!''Safari Boot\xa0Tips''Dry Feet:''This is the age-old boot tip, but keep your boots dry and change your socks often. Most people won’t face these challenges on safari. However, keeping dry feet while gorilla or chimp trekking in Uganda, the DRC, and Rwanda will certainly prove to be a challenge. A great pair of socks is always your first line of defense in protecting your feet.''Check these out for a good pair''.''Leather Care:''If you’re going with some of the more expensive boots on this list like the Red Wings or Chippewas I suggest taking care of the leather. With boots like these, they can literally last a lifetime if maintained. The soles can be replaced when they eventually wear. However, the leather must be protected against the elements this is why I use a leather sealant and conditioner. Like''Obenaufs, which you can buy it here.''Read Next:''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''Best Safari Shirts for Men and Women''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''The Best Safari Hat to Wear on Safari''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The Best Safari Boots For Bush Walks REVIEWED''was last modified:''April 12th, 2018''by''Cameron''One of the best safari experiences in Africa has to be a balloon safari. While it is not a cheap or “local” experience it is without a doubt a once in a lifetime one. Drifting above the plains, forests, and rivers of the Masai Mara feels like a dream. There is no turbulence and no loud motor – just you and your temporary balloon drifting over wild elephants, lions, and giraffe.''Preparation\xa0For A Balloon Safari over the Masai Mara''Balloon safaris should be booked in advanced due to a high demand and limited space available. We’d suggest booking with''Governor’s Balloon Safaris'', the top Balloon Safari operator in the Mara. The night before your balloon safari confirm with your camp what time you will need to depart and get to bed early.\xa0The morning of your flight you are required to be at the launch site by 6:00 a.m. or earlier depending on sunrise time. Ideal flying conditions are early in the morning to see the African plains from high up is utterly romantic and dreamlike. We stayed at Governors Camp in the Masai Mara, where the staff delivered coffee to us at 4:45 for a much-needed wake up before we took off to the launch site for their balloon safari. Be sure you know''what to wear on safari''because mornings can be especially cold in the early morning, while quickly getting hot once the sun rises.''Taken with our safari camera gear''Our First Balloon Safari''All balloon safaris with Governors take off at Little Governors Camp. On arrival to the camp, passengers can enjoy tea and coffee while the balloon is prepared for the flight. Guests are given a briefing and told what to expect on their balloon safari. Each massive hot air balloon can carry 16 guests at a time. The baskets are compartmentalized with four people to a compartment and everyone has plenty of space to take in the views.''Takeoff feels surreal because it feels like literally nothing at all. One minute you’re on the ground and the next you’re drifting above the treetops in the middle of your balloon safari and you don’t even realize it. Unlike helicopters, planes, or an elevator the lift is so gradual it still feels like you’re standing on the earth’s surface while in the balloon. Have you ever flown like a bird in your dreams? Well, that’s what a balloon safari feels like – it’s the closest thing to a flying dream we have ever experienced.''Governor’s Balloon Safaris are considered the best outfit to take a balloon safari with due to their professionalism, experience, and quality. Our pilot, Mike, has been flying balloons for nearly three decades and in conditions much more difficult than the Masai Mara. In fact, the plains of the Mara with relatively predictable winds are an ideal location to fly a hot air balloon. There are no power lines, no mountains, and no private property you can land on. Allowing guests to rest easy on the flight and get lost in the moment.''A balloon safari leaves you absolutely speechless. Mike\xa0was an expert as we floated over the Mara River. He danced over treetops and dipped into clearings, before climbing to dizzying heights that provided all-encompassing views of the great Masai Mara. During all of this you watch antelope, lions, elephants, and buffalo wake up for another day in the Mara.''The average flight lasts about one hour; however, it can be more or less depending on the weather conditions. We got lucky and it was fifteen minutes longer than expected – an expected and rare treat. On landing, be prepared for the balloon to land on its side. Seats are specially designed and with a great pilot you feel a few bumps before coming to a comfortable stop on your back. After landing the Governors support team quickly scoops guests up and takes them for a bush breakfast in the middle of the Masai Mara. Champagne and mimosas accompany a hot and delicious breakfast while guests celebrate a stunning morning and safe balloon safari.''Balloon Safari Cost''Starting at $420 a person, the cost of a balloon safari is not for budget travelers. Costs involved in maintaining, purchasing, employing crew, and running support vehicles in the middle of the bush are not exactly cheap. If you’re already staying at Governor’s Camp like we did be sure to check out a number of their packages that include flights into the Mara, several nights at Governor’s Camp with food, and the balloon safari.''A balloon safari was definitely a highlight of not only our time in the Masai Mara, but of all of our time in East Africa! If you want to experience Africa from a different point of view then I would recommend a balloon safari at least once in your lifetime – you won’t forget it!''Read Next:''What is a Balloon Safari Over The Masai Mara Like?''was last modified:''November 10th, 2017''by''Cameron''I wondered about the internet in Africa before we left. It’s the least developed continent and I’ve never seen anyone raving about keeping up with their Netflix addiction in''Zambia''.''When we landed in South Africa''we were\xa0uncertain of how we would be able to manage digital work while traveling Africa. Information on the topic is vague.''Some of our friends have even stated that\xa0“there is no internet in Africa.” While that may not be true – this is Africa – not the North Pole and we are in the 21st century.\xa0Here is the state of\xa0internet in Africa from a first-hand perspective of spending a year of''working on a laptop while traveling''.''The Internet in Africa''This is an outline of\xa0the costs, main internet providers, and personal experience with the internet in Africa. Remember that we work online (on this website!) so our internet needs are more than the average user who just wants to surf the web and occasionally check Facebook (''like our page!'').''Surprisingly, we haven’t gone more than a few days without internet throughout our whole time in Africa. This is due to purchasing sim cards and airtime on the go. The majority of the internet in Africa is still through mobile. However, the ability to stream, upload or download was only possible at\xa0business hotels in a\xa0few major cities.''The Internet in South Africa''Vodacom, Telcom, OneCell, and MTN are the cell phone and internet providers''Vodacom costs 400 Rand for 10 GB of data for one month''I expected the internet in South Africa to be okay. We spent\xa0two months in''Cape Town''with hopes to catch up on work in a modern city. However, I found the internet in South Africa to be some of the worst for the price paid. “Free WiFi” rarely worked well and anytime I went to a cafe I was always limited to 100-500 MB for the duration of my visit. We found fiber internet twice\xa0in Cape Town, but they are in the process of rolling it out everywhere. Fingers crossed. From my talks with the South Africans, I can only conclude that the internet is poor due to the sheer number of people “on the grid.”''Without internet in the Drakensberg – beautiful!''The Internet in Swaziland''MTN is''the only''internet provider in Swaziland. Apparently,''King Mswati III''is in bed with the company and MTN has the monopoly over the entire country.''The cost is 400 Swazi Lilangeni for 1.5 GB of data. That’s about $30!''Due to the insanely high cost of the internet in Swaziland, we decided to just live without it for the week we were there. We couldn’t really find reliable WiFi in cafes either. Yes, the world still turns without internet.''Crossing the border into Swaziland''The Internet in Mozambique''Vodacom is the main service provider in''Mozambique''500 Meticals got us 5 GB of data''None of the places we stayed ever had free WiFi that worked (even if advertised), but we didn’t mind because it was so darn cheap to buy data here.''We were able to have internet even in the''wilderness of Mozambique''and never worried about using up our data since it was so affordable. Hell, \xa0we even went on a download spree when we left the country because we had so much data left over.''The Internet in Namibia''MTN and TN Mobile are the main service providers''MTN is more expensive but works better than TN Mobile''TN mobile is cheap with the Jiva surfer plan. We paid 40 Namibian dollars for 2 GB of data.''Expect the internet to only work in main towns. This is a''desert country''with most of the population living in towns and bare roads for hours and hours.''The Internet in Botswana''Orange and BTC Mobile are the main service providers''BTC Mobile cost 30 Pula per 70 MB''We found the best WiFi in Botswana in Maun at the Old Bridge Backpackers.''You may get Bush satellite WiFi if you are staying at a''lodge in the Delta'', but don’t expect it to be wonderful.''The Internet in Zambia''AirTel, MTN, and Vodacom are the most widely covered networks in Zambia.''A sim card costs 5 Zambian Kwacha and we got 2 GB of data for 140 Zambian Kwacha for one week.''We found the WiFi in Lusaka\xa0to work well but forget it anywhere outside of main cities.''We also found the data prices in Zambia to be some of the highest in Africa.''Sunsets in Zambia''The Internet in Zimbabwe''Econet is the main service provider''Data will run you $2 for 50 MB''With the crazy high prices in''just about all of Zimbabwe''we opted out of a sim card and data and prayed for decent WiFi at the places we stayed. We were able to stay connected in Vic Falls, but went completely offline for our''Christmas safari around Lake Kariba.''The Internet in Malawi''Airtel is the main service providers''It cost us 500 Malawian Kwacha for a sim card and 2000 Malawian Kwacha for 1 GB. Malawi was the only country where we didn’t actually have to register for a sim card and just picked it up at a roadside stand with airtime.''We found the WiFi along''Lake Malawi''to work quite well. We were also able to buy airtime vouchers just about anywhere in Malawi.''The Internet in Tanzania''Vodacom and Airtel are the main service providers on the mainland. Holatel\xa0is the most''widely used in Zanzibar.''It cost us 30,000 Tanzanian Shillings for 10 GB of data for one month. Score!''I found the coverage to be''great throughout most of Tanzania.''The Internet in Rwanda''MTN is the main service provider''We paid 5000 Rwandan Francs for 7 GB of data for one week. Data is limited to 1 GB per day''The internet in Rwanda was cheap, but it didn’t work great especially during peak times.''The Internet in Uganda''MTN is the main service provider''We paid 90,000 Ugandan Shillings for 5 GB of data over the course of a month.''We found the 3G coverage to work quite well and only went without a signal once while staying in the Kibale Forest.''We went''Gorilla Trekking''and found reception everywhere on our''Uganda road trip''.''The Internet in Kenya''Safaricom is the main service provider, and I felt like they always skimmed data off of us. Corruption seems to even leak down to the internet providers!''500 Kenyan Shillings gets you 1 GB of data for one month.''We have found 3G coverage in almost all parts of Kenya – even the''Masai Mara''and the''Diani Beach''! The 4G is also reliable in the major cities of Kenya.''Internet in Morocco''Maroc Telecom, Meditel, and Inwi\xa0are the main service providers. Maroc Telecom seemed to work the best in''Marrakech'',''Essaouira'', and other main cities.''We paid 50 Dirham for 5 GB of data for one month''We were able to find WiFi (albeit slow) in almost all''cafes and riads.''These are my experiences with the internet throughout Southern, Eastern, and even a little of Northern Africa. I wanted to make this post because so many people have asked us how we are keeping up with work and how the internet is here in Africa. While I can’t say the internet in Africa is half of what I expect in North America, Europe, and parts of Asia I have been able to''keep up with work while here – just with a lot of patience.''Read Next:''Buying a Car in South Africa and Being Undesirable''The Only Mozambique Travel Guide You Need''10 Tanzania Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''was last modified:''November 13th, 2017''by''Natasha''We’ve received a few emails from readers about NGOs and charities in Africa. It dawned on us that despite knowing the plights of Africa we have been failing to completely support those who are actively working to make change. While\xa0we do believe in the economic support of tourism and shopping in local markets as outsiders we can do more beyond helping push tourism, spending on tourism, and purchasing goods.\xa0Now that we have gotten a feel for the continent and seen where help is needed, we can adequality assess our favorite charities.''They Need Our Support!''Spending large amounts of time\xa0in Africa can be\xa0eye-opening for those of us from the West. There are some major crisis facing Africa such as widespread disease, war, poverty, and famine. The organizations in this list are charities in Africa, although three are operated outside of the continent. Each organization has been vetted by multiple charity watch organizations, has a proven track record, and we fully support each charities cause.''We’ve donated $20 to each of these charities''.''It’s not much, but every contribution helps and we sincerely hope that if everyone reading this post donates a small amount to one of these\xa0charities as well, we’ll collectively make\xa0a positive influence on the world and Africa.''Charities In Africa We Support''UN Humanitarian Affairs''Bidi Bidi has officially become the largest refugee camp in the world! Located in Northern Uganda the camp is on the brink of collapse and stressing the already troubled Uganda. As thousands of people flee from the war-ravaged''South Sudan''in search of safety they’re running out of places to turn. The United Nations camp is dire need of support and grossly underfunded. These are people with no home, nowhere to go, and no prospects who now face famine and uncertainty. They have been stripped of their homes and their social identity.''While\xa0the world turns it’s eye to Syria and North Korea\xa0no one talks about the crisis in South Sudan. The humanitarian effort is largely handled by the UN Humanitarian affairs and currently they are millions of dollars shy of what is needed to just help support the sprawling refugee camp that continues to grow.''You Can Donate Too!''Against Malaria Foundation''When we saw the first coffin store with a funny\xa0name in''Malawi''we thought it was comical, about 2o coffin shops later…not so\xa0much. Malawi is at high risk for malaria and it is the number one killer of pregnant women and children under the age of five. Each year malaria kills nearly 400,000 people and infects millions. As staggering as that number is the Against Malaria Foundation has distributed nearly 45 million mosquito nets and after the advent of distributing nets malaria deaths have dropped to\xa0a third of their original numbers.''According to''GiveWells auditing'', they have determined that the Against Malaria Foundation is one of the most effective charities at reaching its goal for each donation. So, if you want your donation to go far and for a good cause they’re a great choice. If you’re on the fence just take it from them, “''every 100-1,000 nets we put over heads and beds, one child doesn’t die.''”''You Can Donate Too!''Tasha with some very curious Malawian children!''Give Directly''This charity proves as an interesting concept. They target low-income households and give the cash directly through mobile banking systems. To many the argument could be made that direct cash payments may not be as effective as traditional charities who seek to enrich health and livelihood through different means. However, it appears through a number of case studies that these cash charities are indeed effective at improving lives when targeted correctly.''Give Directly is also extremely effective at delivering your dollar to those in need with nearly 82% of donations making it directly to the beneficiary. Give Directly primarily operates in\xa0Kenya and Uganda. The charities end goal is to reach a 90% return, but needs additional funding in order to do so. Despite being unconventional Give Directly has been named the #2 charity overall for 2016 by''Give Well''.''You Can Donate Too!''African Wildlife Foundation''We love wildlife, don’t you?''AWF works well beyond the protection of Rhinos and anti-poaching programs. They aim\xa0to foster interactions between humans, the environment, and wildlife. As the population and economies of Africa continue to grow wildlife are increasingly under threat. In fact the majority of African wild animals live outside of their of protected parks. Encroachment on their habitats and human-wildlife conflicts are a daily occurrence.''We’re all aware of the direct threat poaching poses on wildlife, but it is small in comparison to human/wildlife conflicts that occur on a daily basis in Africa. Farmers and ranchers are constantly at sorts with wildlife and often take drastic measures by killing or poisoning wild game. The biggest victims are predators and vultures, as they are can be a direct threat to livestock.''You Can Donate Too!''American Red Cross''They are the largest charitable organization in the world! Despite several pitfalls in the past, the American Red Cross is a global force for good and has a long history of being there for those who need it the most. It doesn’t matter whether you are from a developing nation or not. When war breaks out in Sudan or a tornado levels a town in the American Midwest the Red Cross will be there.''They go beyond many charities in Africa in their global reach often providing life saving medical treatment. Tasha and I have both donated blood and volunteered on multiple occasions to the Red Cross. I suggest many people take the time do so at least once in their life if capable.''The Red Cross has led countless initiatives\xa0in Africa dealing with war, famine, and disasters. Handling the tasks outside the immediate disaster relief, they also help refugees from war torn countries like Burundi, where they work to reconnect refugees with their families.''You Can Donate Too!''Aid For Africa''The list could go on and on. There are so many smaller charity enterprises that you could choose to support. A great resource would be Aid For Africa where they have a network of dozens of charities in Africa who tackle smaller issues, that are no less important. Issues such as orphans in Rwanda, medical treatment in Mali, or doctors for gorillas.''Donors can choose to donate to Aid For Africa which will then appropriate funds to their members or they can choose a charity of their choice. The organizations also aim to collaborate in an effort to tackle challenges that are often multi-dimensional and require multiple strengths to solve the problem.''You Can Donate Too!''Read Next:''Here Are The Charities In Africa We Support''was last modified:''April 30th, 2017''by''Cameron''Women’s safari clothing can be a mystery to any first timer in Africa. An African safari will be one of the greatest highlights of your life. However, any great safari can be spoiled with the wrong clothes, so it’s important to come prepared for safari. Before I came to Africa I knew nothing about\xa0women’s safari clothing or what to pack. Countless safaris throughout''Southern and Eastern Africa''later and these are items I would make sure to bring on your''first\xa0African safari''.''Choosing Women’s Safari Clothing''I love greens, beige, and khaki just as much as the next wannabe Merryl Streep in''Out of Africa''. However, the truth of the matter is you will spend a lot of time in a car while on game drives in Africa. Wearing these colors help you\xa0blend in and don’t bake your body under the hot African sun, but in the end colors\xa0don’t\xa0matter.''The''dreaded Tsetse fly''is said to be attracted to dark blue colors. Avoid dressing in these colors unless you want to become a target.''Layering is essential. Game drives usually start early and end late when it is cold. In the middle of the day temperatures can soar, so shedding some layers will save you a heat stroke.''Always make sure to check the weather for the season you are visiting Africa. It’s not one big giant hot continent.''Is it the rainy season where you are heading? Make sure to take note and pack for wet days if it is.''just because you are in Africa doesn’t mean you can’t be stylish. If style is important then make sure to pick out a few fashionable safari clothing items for your trip.''Elements of Women’s Safari Clothing''Durability'': Don’t go cheap on travel safari clothing. African elements can be especially tough on clothing so you will want to make sure you are getting quality clothing.''Versatility'': Avoid having a jumbo suitcase and pack clothing that can be interchanged with different outfits. I particularly like having one long skirt or dress, one pair of shorts, and two pairs of pants which all go well with some plain colored shirts. This is particularly important if you plan to take bush flights where you are limited to 15kgs of luggage.''Practicality'': Black yoga pants with no pockets are wonderful, just not on safari. Always keep in mind how practical something is.''Material'': Lightweight, synthetic, quick dry clothing is great for Africa.''Women’s Safari Clothing: The Basics''Women’s Safari Shirt''I would recommend at least three safari shirts with you on your trip. I love the''ExOfficio''Breez’R Shirt.''It’s 100% nylon and has “''Insect Shield''” technology repelling all those African creepy crawlers (and mosquitos!).''Click image for latest pricing''My other favorite options are the:''Columbia Women’s Silver Ridge Long Sleeve Shirt''. If you are looking for a women’s safari shirt with flap pockets then check out the''Shooter Shirt on Amazon.''Women’s Safari Pants''One pair of women’s safari pants is great; however, two will ensure that you won’t have to do any washing on your trip. I personally have the''prAna Haley pants''and have had them for almost three years now without issue. It’s almost impossible to stain them, they roll up into capris when it’s hot, and they are water resistant.''Click image for latest pricing''Another great option are the:''Columbia Sportswear Women’s Saturday Trail Pant''Safari Shorts''It gets HOT in Africa, especially in the middle of the day. I would recommend bringing at least one pair of shorts to stay cool. I prefer a nice pair of green shorts that are''stylish like these.''Click image for latest pricing''Another great option are:''Convertible pants''. They may not be straigh off the Vogue runway, howver they are verstatile and perfect for Africa.''Bras''A good selection of sports bras is ideal for an African safari. The roads get pretty bumpy… I like''Champion sports bras''which are a great price for the quality you get.''Click image for latest pricing''Scarf''I forgot to bring a scarf from home and paid a premium for a good one in Africa. However, a scarf is essential for those early mornings before sunrise when it’s still very cold.''Check out this beautiful scarf from Mali!''Click image for latest pricing''Outerwear''I would say no matter what season you go on safari you should at least bring a warm fleece jacket (''maybe even a down jacket'') with you just in case it gets cold (which it probably will). If you are visiting''Kruger National Park''in the winter or\xa0have plans to camp in the desert overnight then a more heavy duty jacket is suitable. Stay warm with the''Hardshell North Face jacket''. This one packs up small and is waterproof!''Click image for latest pricing''Shoes''You’ll be sitting in a car for most of your African safari. I generally wear flip flops unless I am going on a bush walk in which good women’s travel shoes are needed. You don’t want to have to run from a buffalo in bad shoes! I would suggest bringing at least one pair of durable sandals (I personally have had my''Rainbow sandals''for five years and counting), and one good pair of safari shoes. For no non sense hiking shoes that look like tennis shoes my go to’s are''Merrell Moab Ventilator''. I’ve been wearing them around the world for two years now and they are still going strong. I also think the price is perfect for the shoe.''For more ideas''check out my''favorite travel shoes!''Sandals on safari''Women’s Safari Clothing: The Extra Safari Packing List Items''Safari Bag''You’ll need something to carry and pack all these women’s safari clothes into. If you’re going on safari chances are you may be taking a bush flight or two. I would recommend packing light as most of these small plans severely limit you on weight. We have been on flights where we are only allowed 15 kg’s a person and some flights that allow us to have 25 kgs. Make sure to only pack what you need. I like''Drakensberg\xa0Bag''line for their supreme quality.\xa0 I break down some of my other favorite''safari bags here.''Click image for latest pricing''Safari Backpack''If you are traveling with electronics it is essential to keep them covered. African dust and humidity is no joke. I like having a backpack to keep all my electronics in and I usually have all eyes on that bag when in transit.''Here is a good bag for safari.''Click image for latest pricing''Binoculars''Some guides will lend you their binoculars to use, but I wouldn’t bank on that. If you want to see some of the wildlife up close I would recommend a decent pair of binoculars.\xa0I like''these ones from Bushnell''since they are quality at an affordable price.''Sunscreen''Sunscreen is extremely expensive in Africa. Don’t arrive on the continent without it or you will likely pay a premium or have a hard time finding it at all.''Peak Sunscreen''is a''great for the environment.''Safari Hat''I love wearing a hat on safari.''Something about it makes me feel like\xa0Indiana Jones. Check out our full posts on the''best safari hats here.''Small Flashlight''Many''African lodges''will provide flashlights in your room. However, if you are camping or staying a little more basic a flashlight is always a good thing to have. We met someone once who\xa0didn’t have a flashlight and snuck up on a lion outside her tent – don’t let that happen to you!''Sunglasses''You’ll definitely want these on your safari packing list. Sunglasses are another item you will pay a premium for in Africa.''Arrive on the continent with a few pairs.''Adaptor''Most of Southern Africa uses the''Type M plug'', while East Africa generally uses the''Type G Adaptor''.\xa0I have a''universal adapter''which covers me in many circumstances (but NOT Southern Africa).''Camera''Any kind of decent wildlife shots while on safari will require a good camera. iPhones and iPads are great…but definitely not on close-ups of animals on safari. I travel with my''Fujifilm X-T10''with a''200 mm telephoto lens''. No, I’m not a wildlife photographer, but I do manage to get close up shots of the most amazing lions and elephants still! Cameron breaks down more''great cameras for safari here!''It wouldn’t hurt to pack…''A Bathing Suit!''Many lodges have pools, and who knows maybe you can head to''African coast''after your safari. I would pack at least one bathing suit for down time between game viewing.''Safari Dress''Just because you’re on safari doesn’t mean you shouldn’t dress nicely once in awhile. I like wearing dresses to dinner once in awhile. They are light and keep me cool under the African sun. Here’s a''cheap safari dress''that will look great at dinner or on game drives.''Buff''Cameron and I both love our''Buff Headband''. Our Buffs are UV protected and keep the sweat off my forehead.''Want more?''Cameron breaks down the''best African safari clothes for men and women''here! If you’re traveling to Africa and not going on safari check out my basic''Africa packing list.''Care to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Tours in Africa:''Check out some of these''African tours!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read Next:''The Best Safari Boots For Bush Walks''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''What is a Balloon Safari Over The Masai Mara Like?''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Ultimate Women’s Safari Clothing Checklist ( + Other Safari Packing List Items)''was last modified:''December 6th, 2017''by''Natasha''In 1908 Winston Churchill declared Uganda the “Pearl of Africa” in his 1908 Book My African Journey.\xa0More than a century\xa0later, visitors still flock to find\xa0this pearl. After our self drive in Uganda, I can’t disagree with Mr. Churchill. The country is filled\xa0with birdlife, vast plains, jungle, rolling hills, and some of the friendliest people in Africa.''We entered Southern Uganda from Rwanda with low expectations for\xa0the country. Sure, they hold the world’s largest population of mountain gorillas – but what else would\xa0we find? A road trip through\xa0Uganda was a highlight of our African road trip. Besides the endless amount of speed bumps, roads are decent and traffic police corruption is low. It’s the perfect country to self drive, with a rental or with your own vehicle (''like us''!). Here is our self drive Uganda itinerary.''Self Drive Uganda Itinerary''Lake Bunyoni''It has been said that Lake Bunyoni may be one the most beautiful lakes in all of Africa. Now that is debatable, but it is a lovely lake that is perfect to relax on for a few days. Lake Bunyoni was our first stop as we drove up from Rwanda. From the Cyanika border, it took us about three hours through rolling hills to reach our destination by car.''Lake Bunyoni is said to be the “place of many birds,” so if you are even slightly into birding I would recommend a stop her''A popular thing to do on Lake Bunyoni is\xa0to take a small\xa0boat around to visit the various\xa0islands that occupy the tiny lake. Akampene, Bushara, Kyahugye, Bucuranuka, Bwama, and Njuyeera are some of the more popular islands to visit.''Lake Bunyoni is the perfect place if you just don’t want to do anything at all. We found great joy in just sitting with a coffee while overlooking the peacefulness of our surroundings.''Bwindi Impenetrable National Park''Bwindi National Forest is famed for its population of mountain gorillas. The UWA offers the unique experience to trek into the forest to catch a glimpse of the critically endangered species. It is a highlight and draw for many tourists who come to Uganda, and one of the most incredible experiences in Africa.''Gorilla trekking permits are not cheap at $600 a permit; however, the experience is unforgettable. We trekked high into the Bwindi Forest to find a family of 17 gorillas. Visitors are given an hour with the gorillas to watch\xa0the group play, eat, and socialize.''Besides''gorilla trekking in Bwindi National Park''visitors are provided the ability to hike to beautiful waterfalls in the area and enjoy the dense jungle.''Where to Stay when Gorilla Trekking?''We stayed at the Bwindi Lodge a ten-minute walk away from the park headquarters in Buhoma. If you are looking to treat yourself I would highly recommend checking out''Volcanoes Safaris''. For a more budget-friendly option visitors should look at\xa0the''Nkuringo Bwindi Gorilla''Lodge''or''Buhoma Community Campsite''.''Queen Elizabeth National Park''Queen Elizabeth National Park is 1978km2 in size. While, 95 mammal species and\xa0over 600 different species of birds call the park home! Queen Elizabeth is the perfect stop\xa0after Bwindi National Park. We were expecting a long drive after our amazing day gorilla trekking in Uganda, but instead, we drove just two hours to the southern entrance of Queen Elizabeth. The southern region of the park is known as Ishasha. It is a great spot to go in search of some famous tree climbing lions.''The tree climbing lions only hang out in two places in the world (''Tanzania is the other).''We went into the park just before sunset and low and behold 30 minutes in we spotted her – a real tree climbing lionness.''The next day we self-drove through the park to reach Mweya peninsula. You can self-drive on the main road through\xa0the park without having to pay vehicle or park fees. The whole time you stand a chance of spotting of Africa’s famous wildlife.''It wasn’t until we hit the Mweya park entrance about 100 km from Ishasha that we officially entered the park and had to present our park passes.\xa0We made our way to Mweya lodge for some lunch, but found it to be overpriced and went next door to Canteen for a more affordable\xa0meal.''From there we set out to see the crater lakes of the park. The\xa0drive around the crater lakes is\xa0one of the most stunning in all of Africa. The pockmarked land with dozens of crater lakes made us feel small. Two hours on the road we never saw anyone else in a two hour drive along the rim of the craters.''We never managed to see much wildlife in Queen Elizabeth, but the tree climbing lions and famous crater lakes made it all worth it.''Where to stay in Queen Elizabeth National Park?''We stayed at a campsite and lodge called''@ the River.''I found the price to be too high for the lodge itself, but it is one of the cheaper places to stay in Ishasha. If you are planning to stay at Mweya the Mweya campsite is adequate for a night or two. A more luxurious option is the''Mweya Lodge.''Kibale National Park''Bwindi may have the mountain gorillas, but if you want to come face to face with our closest living relative head to Kibale National Forest. Located about an hours drive from Fort Portal, Kibale National Forest is the primate capital of the world. With 13 different species of primates, it’s no wonder where they get their name.''However, visitors flock here to get an up-close encounter with our closest relative – the chimpanzee.Chimp permits can be organized by the''Ugandan Wildlife Authority''. AT $150 they come in as a much cheaper alternative to''gorilla trekking in Uganda''.''It’s advisable to arrange your permits before getting to Uganda; however, we found that people were organizing their trips day of during the low season. Finding the chimps took us less than an hour and once we spotted the first troop we were able to observe them at a close distance. Visitors are given an hour of observation time with the chimps during which we saw about 20 different chimps.''The male chimps are the most habituated to humans and are the least shy group. We heard them call and interact with one another and even caught two grooming! We did see female chimps, but they tended to hang out high in the trees with their young.''It’s worth noting that Cameron and I went chimp trekking in the Nyungwe forest in Rwanda, but enjoyed our time in Uganda more. The forest was easier to navigate, trekking the chimps took less time, and we were able to have a better interaction with them in Uganda. That’s not to say that the experience in Rwanda wasn’t memorable though!''Where to stay when Chimp Trekking?''We decided to park it at the''Primate Lodge''for a few days in the lush Ugandan forest. Nestled away from the hustle and bustle of life, The Primate Lodge is a five-minute walk away from the Kibale forest entrance. Each of the nine bandas\xa0are spread out to allow complete privacy for all guests.''All meals are fully inclusive at the Primate Lodge and the food is delicious. The local staff are kind and attentive to all of our meal requests for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Even dining in the comfort of our own room was no problem at all.''We arrived very late at night after getting''completely lost in rural African villages''and asked the staff if we could have our dinner in our room – at 10 pm. They happily catered to us and understood the long 10-hour drive we had to reach them. We were both so thankful for the kindness of the staff, taste of the food, and overall comfort of the spacious banda.''Murchison Falls National Park''It’s hard to believe that the entire Nile River squeezes itself through just a 7-meter wide gap making Murchison Falls. The waterfall is 43 meters high and makes for an impressive sight to see. Besides the beautiful falls, Murchison National Park the home of''76 species of mammals''and''451 birds''. It also holds Uganda’s largest population of crocodiles, so I wouldn’t recommend sunbathing along the river banks. A boat trip to the base of the falls runs visitors $30 per person.''Where to stay in Murchison?''The''Red Chili Rest Camp''is a great place to camp while visiting Murchison. They have a full restaurant and more importantly a full bar. Red Chili Rest Camp also organizes safaris into Murchison.''Kidepo Valley National Park''We never had the chance to visit Kidepo, but I feel I should give it a special mention as just about every Ugandan we spoke to absolutely loves the park. Kidepo is about as far north as you can get in Uganda and lies right next to Sudan and Kenya. It takes about nine hours to get to from Kampala, making the park isolated.''Its isolation is many visitors dream as they will have almost the entire park to themselves to see some of the 77 different species of mammals. The park is best visited during the dry season when animals flock to the few watering holes near Apoka.''Where to stay in Kidepo?''The''Apoka Safari Lodge''is a good place for those not equipped to camp. For those that have their own supplies and are on a budget I would recommend the''Apoka Rest Camp.''Jinja''Jinja is dubbed “the adventure capital of East Africa,” and for good reason. The city of Jinja is located at the source of the Nile River. Yes, the worlds longest river starts right in Jinja making it a hotspot for tourist in Uganda.''We spent a few days here relaxing on the great Nile River and enjoying some delicious coffee and cafe treats at''The Deli''. Of course, the highlight of our time in Jinja was white water rafting down the Nile.''White water rafting on the\xa0Nile is one of the most popular things to do in the country. We chose to spend our day with''Nalubale Rafting''and started the trip at 9 am\xa0near where we stayed – The Haven. Cameron and I were put in a group with five other daring souls from around the world.''Our guide, a local Ugandan, was an experienced rafter and spent a good deal of time instructing us on the basics of paddling and what to do in emergencies.''I’ve been white water rafting four times now. Twice in the United States,''once in Bali'', and once in Croatia and I thought I could handle it all. Oh, boy was I mistaken. One tumble out of my raft on class five rapids let me know the''adventure was on''. We spent the entire day dodging rapids, flipping rafts, and gulping in fresh Nile River water. This isn’t your walk in the park rafting folks – the Nile is serious.''We got a little wet…''Yes, we all lived thanks to the experienced guys and girls of Nalubale who ensured our safety every step of the way. However, after just two flips of the raft all seven of us in our raft were thinking the same thing.''Has anyone ever died doing this?''Rafting the Nile is extreme fun and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a real adrenaline pumping time in Uganda. If you’re not so prone to water sports then Jinja is also famed for having\xa0ATV Quadbike Safaris and bungee jumping over the Nile. Or you can say screw the whole adventure thing and opt for a brewery tour of the''Nile Brewery.''Self drive Uganda campsite''Where to stay in Jinja?''Definitely the top place to camp is''The Haven''. This was one of the best campsites we found in all of Africa. The bathrooms were clean, the view is incredible, and they even have free WiFi.''Kampala/Entebbe''Most trips to Uganda will probably involve the capital city of Kampala, although it’s worth mentioning that the international airport is actually in Entebbe. It will take you at least an hour to get to Kampala from Entebbe unless the traffic is horrendous (which it probably will be).''If you are arriving by plane late at night I would recommend staying in Entebbe for the night. We drove through Kampala at 6 pm on a Saturday night and I have to say that it was the worst traffic I have ever been in my life\xa0(''and we used to live in NYC''). I thought it may just have been a fluke night, but a few more drives through Kampala while we''trying to sell our truck''proved that wrong. The traffic in Kampala is just always a nightmare.''To escape the city pollution and traffic I would recommend hanging out in Entebbe. We spent a few days relaxing on the shores of Lake Victoria at the Protea Entebbe. If you are looking for a few days to kill in the area I would recommend heading to the Mabamba Swamp where the famous''Shoebill Storks''live. Alternatively, take a boat ride out on Lake Victoria or relax in the Entebbe''Botanical Gardens.''Where to stay in Entebbe?''We stayed\xa0a few days at the''Protea Entebbe Hotel''right on Lake Victoria. The hotel is clean and comfortable and is minutes away to the airport (free airport transport too!).''Uganda Travel Tips''If you’re brave try taking a''boda boda''around Uganda. They are essentially motorcycle taxis best used for short distances. We took them a handful of times just to go short distances, but be warned that they aren’t for the faint of heart. Drivers drive fast and squeeze in and out of traffic. We saw three boda-boda crashes in Kampala\xa0– no one was seriously hurt those times.''The''National Bird of Uganda''is the crested crane and can be found on the nation’s flag.''Make sure to try a''Rolex.''A rolex is a rolled up Chapati with whipped egg and various vegetables inside. You can find this on any Ugandan street corner for less than 5000 Shilling.''Visas:''Americans traveling to Uganda can expect to pay $50 USD, cash only, for a single entry visa. If you have plans to visit Rwanda, Uganda, and Kenya visitors can obtain an''East Africa multiple entry''visa for $100 cash at the border. Be sure to apply for this visa at least three days ahead of entry online.''The\xa0Ugandans are''friendly people''that avoid conflict. No wonder Uganda was named one of the''friendliest countries in the world.''We never felt threatened in Uganda. Even after sitting in standstill traffic in downtown Kampala at night. However, it is still a developing nation so be sure to use common sense.''The national''Park Costs''for foreign registered cars is insanely high. Non residents can expect to pay $40 per day for park entry and $150 per vehicle per day.''The''Ugandan Shilling''is the national currency. ATM’s can only be found in large towns. Always make sure to carry enough cash on you as credit cards are rarely accepted outside of Kampala.''We experienced absolutely no hassle from the police in Uganda.''Guess what''? We sold our car in Entebbe!''Read here''to see what that experience was like.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your\xa0Self Drive Uganda''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Uganda:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Plane''t to get you through the wireless nights.''Read Next:''Bwindi Lodge Review: A Home Away from Home in Uganda''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''An Ideal Self Drive Uganda Itinerary''was last modified:''February 2nd, 2018''by''Natasha''A\xa0member of our family is gone. Yes, Charlie, our 1989 awesome Land Cruiser that we bought to get across Africa now has a new owner. We shared some unforgettable memories together – getting stranded in the Okavango Delta, a flash flood in Arusha, and straddling Zimbabwe and Zambia with nothing but water beneath us. Oh Africa, how we love you so much. After going through hell and back trying to''buy the car in South Africa''it was a serious debate to sell him or not. Here is our story of selling a car in Africa.''To recap we bought Charlie last October in Cape Town for 60,000 Rand. At the time of purchase that was approximately $4300 USD. We then continued to spend about another\xa0$1000 on a tune up and equipping the car with jerry cans, various tools, an air compressor, hi lift jack, ground tent, sleeping pads, a cooler, and other various items to get us across Africa. Read''all about what’s in our car here''.''Since October we spent about six months''self-driving through Uganda,''Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi, Tanzania, Rwanda, and Namibia. We had a rental car before Charlie to travel through South Africa, Mozambique, Lesotho, and''Swaziland''for four months. We could not have gotten to about 75% of the places we traveled to without our own vehicle. Our next stop is Kenya which we have decided to travel to without our own transport.''Why did we sell the car?''We are both tired of constantly being in the car. Distances are far, traffic is\xa0bad, roads are questionable, and our bodies are aching from immobility on long travel days. When we get to a\xa0destination we are happy – when we have a ten hour travel day we are miserable. Every time we move locations in Africa the drive is at least five hours. We move locations about every three days, so that’s at least a five-hour drive in the car every three days.''I should note that five hours is a''good travel day''in Africa for us. Six to eight is more along the lines of normal, and a one to three-hour drive is like going to the grocery store. Cameron did all\xa0of the driving because I am terrified\xa0of driving a\xa0huge car on bad African roads with pedestrians\xa0everywhere. I have a\xa0fear of hitting a child and get anxiety when people or bikes are\xa0on the road. So, I left the driving up to the more confident driver. We played\xa0with the idea of driving the car back to South Africa to keep it there, but just one more bad travel day convinced us out of it.''Just another day on an African road''Also…''This car has gotten us as far as we have intended to travel for the time being. We don’t have a carnet (''essentially a passport for a vehicle)'', which is required to enter with a car in Kenya and Egypt. We’ve gotten reports that you can bribe border control to let you through the borders recently, but that’s not something we want to deal with right now. This piece of paper would cost us about $1000 that we would hopefully get back at the end of our journey. However, it’s cheaper to fly from Uganda to Kenya. We’d love to explore\xa0Sudan and Ethiopia, but the problem\xa0lies with crossing the border into these countries with a car because the borders are unstable currently. So, we knew Uganda would be the end of the road with us and Charlie.''Then there is the money…''No, our parents do not support our travels. No, we are not rich. We make our income from working on this site.\xa0Have I mentioned recently that''Africa is expensive to travel''? Besides just basic travel expenses like accommodation and food, Charlie’s fuel efficiency is 6 kilometers a liter – that’s about 13 miles a gallon for all my American friends out there. It costs quite a bit to drive him around,''$2,890''is what we have spent\xa0to be exact. We have also spent quite a bit of money maintaining the vehicle. He was born the same year as me – 1989. He is 27 years old and requires some TLC and maintenance, but I also can’t think of another vehicle we could have driven on the worst African roads with.''This is not our home''If we lived in Africa there is no way we would sell Charlie. We would simply drive him back to our home and park him there. However, we don’t have a home in Africa and besides a few boxes in our\xa0parent’s homes\xa0back in the United States, we don’t have a “home” at all. We can’t plan on keeping a vehicle here when we can’t legally stay here for an indefinite amount of time.''How did we sell the car?''We knew that the Land Cruiser was an investment when we first''bought him in Cape Town''. As long as we arrived at\xa0our\xa0final destination with the\xa0car intact we knew we would get some of our money back on the purchase. We didn’t know how we would sell the car, we just knew that we would sell the car. It’s been an''act now, think later''mentality during our journey.''We bought a Toyota Land Cruiser in Africa, one of the most popular choices of vehicle on the continent. Every week or so we would get an inquiry on the car.''“Is your car for sale?''”''“How much for the car?''”''As I mentioned when we first bought the car, a Land Cruiser in Africa is a hot commodity, and Charlie is a pretty darn nice one. Throughout our journey, we collected names and numbers of people interested in the car, so selling him would be a cinch, right?''Well…sort of…''When we arrived in Uganda we finally started seriously thinking about how to sell the car. Before we did anything we took him to a mechanic to have a very basic tune up and asked him how much he thought it was worth in Uganda.''“$8000 maximum, but I think you will get $7000,”''he said.''What?''We bought the\xa0truck for $4300, so when we both heard this we were trying our hardest to contain our excitement and act cool. We would drive across Africa and''make money.''I had posted on Ugandan Facebook groups for $5000 originally, but I went home and immediately changed the posting to $7000. We were also including everything in the car to the seller – because, what were we going to do? Fly around Kenya with a giant three person tent?''My Facebook inbox was blowing up with requests to see the car. Of course, like any offer on Craigslist or Gumtree only about 5% of the people were serious. I had requests anywhere from $1000 – $3000 cash for the car, and\xa0one request to give\xa0them the car\xa0for free. A “donation” was how we put it.''No one was offering anywhere near the price the mechanic had told us. The main reason being because if the buyer wanted to do things legally he would have to pay taxes to import the car. Taxes range from $2000-$3000 in Uganda for our truck, so no one was exactly jumping to pay us $7000 for the car plus $3000\xa0to the government. We met with our first real prospect – we drove through rural villages to get to him.''The man offered us $5000, but he didn’t have it with him. We told him we would think about it, we wanted to make the most off our Charlie. With a flight coming up and time running out to sell the car we didn’t want to keep driving around Uganda to sell this thing. That night we sent him a WhatsApp confirm the sale for $5000.''He agreed and told us he would essentially meet us at the airport the day we were flying out. That little voice in the back of my head started voicing some concerns.''“So, he wants to meet us at the airport presumably with half the cash promised in hand before he knows we have a flight? “''In case you didn’t know, Africa is full of opportunists. We told him he should\xa0meet us the day before we leave to finalize the deal. Five minutes later we get a text back and he tells\xa0us he doesn’t\xa0want the car anymore confirming my suspicions that he was trying to scam us.''On to our\xa0other prospects. We drove around Eastern Uganda for the next few days to potential buyers trying to get rid of the car. Everyone said the same thing…they didn’t want to pay a high price for the car AND pay import taxes. We were tired of getting jerked around, we were tired of driving, even more, to try to sell the car, we were just tired. After some debate we agreed\xa0the lowest we would accept\xa0was $4000 for\xa0the car, anything lower than that was insulting.''We drove back to Kampala completely defeated. I was still getting low ball offers in my Facebook inbox and we had a flight out to Kenya in three days. Charlie very well might be sitting in a parking lot for a few months while we sort out what to do with him.''But then, we sold the car.''Yes, we sold the car!''To a Dutch man that has a business in Uganda. He runs a guesthouse and safari company and a 4×4 Land Cruiser is exactly what he needed. We never met him, but we spent many hours with his assistant who took the time to test drive the car with us and take it to a mechanic.''“Man, this is one sweet car,” they all said.''We sold the car for $4000 cash on a bright sunny day to his beautiful Ugandan wife and handsome safari guide, David. They let us kiss Charlie one last time and we told them to treat him well. We sat in the Protea Entebbe Hotel and drafted up a bill of sale, gave them the title to the car, a copy of our passport, and the keys. It is the buyer’s job to import the car into a new country, and that is what they will have to do.''Do I think they got a good deal on the car? Absolutely. They got a 4×4 African workhorse equipped to handle the bush.''Did\xa0we get\xa0ripped off? Not at all. I would have liked to get more on the car and I do think he was worth more, but considering it cost Cameron and I essentially $300 in “rental fees” to drive across Africa with an awesome car for six months we are\xa0quite happy.''We gave most of our cooking supplies, clothing, extra food, and pretty much anything that we can’t carry on our backs to local villagers. Salaries in Uganda are appallingly low and many people live on less than a $1/day. The look on some on their faces when we emptied our car was complete joy. Giving away things like a bag of rice or a colander are\xa0more of a reward than any money\xa0we could get\xa0for the items.''Okay, so let’s talk more money''I know you are wondering what the\xa0whole trip cost us and so are we! I’ve been keeping meticulous notes on every transport expense throughout this trip.''As mentioned before, Charlie cost us''$4300''in South Africa.''We had to put a new battery in him twice (bad alternator we later fixed), new brake pads, clutch repairs, rebuilt the starter motor, and a had few general maintenance stops along the way.''$1033''was spent on repairs and general maintenance.''Two new tires set us back about''$500''(Good mud tires are expensive in Africa).''We traveled about 25,000 miles and put''$2890''worth of petrol in the car. A diesel engine would have been cheaper, and we only had a handful of travel partners to split gas with us a few times.''We spent about''$1500''equipping the car with everything we would need to tackle the continent. All of these supplies were purchased in South Africa where camping accessories\xa0are cheaper.''We paid''$40''on road “fines” in Swaziland, Malawi, and Tanzania. With the majority of those costs coming from the shady''cops in Tanzania.''That brings the total of driving for six months and 25,000 miles to''$10263.''We sold the car for''$4000.''So it cost us''$6263''to drive across Africa. That’s $''3131.50''each.''Of course, this is not counting the money we spent on living. Things like accommodation, food, and fun are not included in this cost, but it should give you a good basis should you want to tackle something like''Hashtag Africa''yourself. No one said this was a cheap endeavor.''So, when you do it yourself and someone wants to just hitch a long ride think twice. It’s a lot more than just splitting fuel and we had countless request for people wanting to join so they could essentially get a free safari across Africa.''Kilimanjaro at Sunrise''Would I do it again?''We saw the sunrise over the tallest sand dune in the world in''Namibia''. We drove around the rim of the most impressive crater lakes in Queen Elizabeth National Park in Uganda. Found some of\xa0the friendliest people in''rural communities in Malawi''. We sat in''Kasanka National Park''with not a single other guest in the park we watched the sunset in\xa0complete wilderness.''Defying that\xa0typical African tourist stereotype felt liberating, we weren’t fly in and fly out tourists. We left South Africa with apprehension to\xa0brave\xa0the African bush, now we feel are much more confident travelers.''We even impress Africans\xa0with our journey! I know we are not the toughest bush people of the bunch – far from it actually. We have met some of\xa0the craziest travelers on this continent full of inspiration. However, maybe we can stand next to them now and have a few\xa0cold beers and relive some crazy tales.''Would we do this trip again?''Yes,''but with a much needed few years break to chill out with some easier (and cheaper) travel. Traveling Africa is more than rewarding, but I won’t lie and say that anywhere near as simple as traveling elsewhere in the world. As for us now? We’re off to Kenya to see more of what this continent has in store!''Read Next:''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Bwindi Lodge Review: A Home Away from Home in Uganda''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''How We Drove Across Africa for $300''was last modified:''April 3rd, 2018''by''Natasha''The Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania is the largest\xa0unfilled inactive volcanic crater, or caldera, in the world. However, it’s not entirely empty as a wildlife spectacle unfolds in this dramatic setting. At the base of 610m\xa0cliff faces elephants trumpet, lions roar, and antelope…eat grass. The crater is arguably the best place in Tanzania to see''the big five''. It is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and one of the most mesmerizing natural features\xa0in the world.''Humanity has deep ties to the crater as well. The''Ngorongoro Conservation area''is home to footprints that date back the oldest humanoids walking upright, nearly 3.7 million years ago. The age combined with other finds suggest that Northern Tanzania and the Ngorongoro Conservation area is the birthplace of humankind. One’s first descent\xa0into the crater is filled with a\xa0sense of our primordial origin. In the early morning a fine mist rolls\xa0over plains filled with wildlife. To''watch\xa0the sunrise from within the Crater it is one of life greatest experiences.''A Guide To The Ngorongoro Crater''Ngorongoro Conservation Area Fees''There is no arguing that the crater is one of the most stunning natural features in Africa, a continent well known for its natural beauty. There is no cheap way to visit the crater as park fees are $78 a person per day and just the vehicle permit comes in at $297.''We never told anyone Africa was cheap.''Despite the high price, we found the crater to be one of those African experiences you simply cannot miss. It ranks right up there with''gorilla trekking in Uganda,''or going deep into the''Okavango Delta in Botswana.''All park fees in Tanzania are now payable at the gate via credit/debit card. They have done away with cash payments and you should be prepared to pay in advance or via credit card. Your tour company will usually handle all of permits/fees while you sit in the car or take photos! For a detailed breakdown of park fees in Tanzania,''we found this pdf with current prices''.''Ngorongoro Crater Safari Guide''It pays to have a solid guide when going on safari. We had a great guide set up by''Perfect Africa'', with''African Horizons''. Francis was our man for two days and his knowledge of the Tanzanian parks was abundant. We haven’t been with many guides more knowledgeable than Francis and he gave us tons of good pointers for the Ngorongoro Crater. The best\xa0advice\xa0he gave was telling us we should wake up at 5:30 so that we were the first ones into the Ngorongoro Crater before dawn. Which, meant that in the early morning hours we had the place to entirely to ourselves before the crowds descended upon the famous crater. I’ve never been the first one into a park or for that matter the''only''person in the park. This gave us the chance to experience the complete tranquility of the crater at sunrise.''We are big time self-drivers and I have driven in almost''every national park in Africa''. However, we chose to go with a tour operator for the crater due to its extremely high vehicle permit fees and rough corrugated roads within the Serengeti and conservation.\xa0We felt the cost of self-driving the crater vs going with a safari company to not be a significant difference and having Francis drive and inform let me fully enjoy my experience instead of being the driver concentrating on the roads. We parked our vehicle safely with''Ma and Bj at the Meserani Snake Park''near Arusha and anxiously hopped on a safari to the see the Crater.''The Ngorongoro Crater\xa0History''The name Ngorongoro comes from the Maasai tribe. The translation is roughly “gift of life.” There is the Oldupai Gorge situated in the plains area of the conservation. Which is widely regarded as the most important prehistoric site in the world, with even the famous''Mary and Louis Leakey''having done research in the valley. The footprints and skeletal fragments have been instrumental in understanding early human evolution and development.''The Ngorongoro Conservation, NCA, was formed in 1976. With its deep ties to humanity, cultural heritage is well prized in regards to the conservation. It is an area of land that has deep significance for both human and animal life and it is the only park in Tanzania where both human settlements, Maasai tribesmen, and animals live together. When driving around the crater rim guests will see pastoralist villages with the Zebra and buffalo walking through herds of cattle.''Quick Ngorongoro Crater Facts''Ngorongoro Crater Location''The Ngorongoro Conservation, or crater is located Tanzania. It is roughly 180km or 110 miles west of Arusha in Northern Tanzania.''Ngorongoro Crater Formation''The crater is believed to have formed around 2.5 million years ago. After experiencing a large scale eruption the peak of the volcano collapsed and formed the crater. Estimates to the volcanoes original size put it at nearly 19,000 feet, or about the same size as''Mount Kilimanjaro''!''Ngorongoro Crater Size''The crater is\xa0610 meters\xa0deep. While the floor covers an area of 260 square kilometers. It’s relatively small and can be seen easily in one day. The crater measures between 10-12 miles wide and the rim sits around 2250 meters in elevation.''Mt. Kilimanjaro at Sunrise''The Ngorongoro Crater\xa0Animals''The Ngorongoro crater is home to roughly 30,000 animals, making it one of the most densely populated animal populations in the world. It is famed for its healthy black rhino population (of which we saw four total in one morning!).\xa0Many large animals call the crater home and you’ll likely spot many within a few hours drive.''Large mammals include Grant’s zebra, Thomson’s gazelle, eland, hyena, elephants, cape buffalo, and lions. The majority of the craters landscape is a large grassy plain, so spotting wildlife is super easy.\xa0 However, visitors should not expect to spot any leopards or giraffes, as there are few of the elusive leopard and no giraffe.\xa0I would recommend purchasing a''good safari camera''before your trip to Africa to take some amazing shots of the animals!''Our first hour in the park we were fortunate enough to spot lion cubs playing in the water and two pairs of black rhino. Francis had arranged for our lodge to pack us breakfast. So, instead of a crowded dining room we enjoyed our breakfast as the sun rose over the crater’s rim and struck a pair of black rhinos awakening for the day. It was of those rare moments in Africa that ignite our passion for this beautiful part of the world.''The Perfect Ngorongoro\xa0Crater Lodge''There are only a handful of lodges that are on the craters rim and we were lucky enough to stay at one of them – the''Ngorongoro Serena Safari\xa0Lodge''. The stone hotel\xa0blended well into the crater’s edge while the\xa0atmosphere of the lodge was relaxing and intimate. We enjoyed the main lounge which featured communal fireplaces and great views of the crater with floor to ceiling windows. The focus of the property is obviously the crater. With numerous balconies around the property ensuring a serene spot to relax and enjoy afternoon tea or sundowners.''Rooms in the Serena are small,\xa0but have balconies facing out to the crater floor. While the bathrooms and large closet space were more than adequate. I found the beds to be a little too firm for our liking though with rooms too tiny for three people. Dinner at the Serena Lodge was a wonderful affair in their large dining room, the waitstaff were\xa0attentive, and the fresh salads and curries were great fuel for a game drive filled morning. Overall, we found the total package of the lodge tough to beat. Rates start at $155pppn in the low season and go as high as $500 pppn\xa0for full board in the high season.''Final Thoughts on our Ngorongoro Crater Safari''It was our first time to the Ngorongoro Crater and although we were only there for one day, it felt like more than enough time to properly see the crater. The beauty beckons us to return. despite the fact that we have seen most of it. We find that our most enjoyable moments in Africa are times of reflection. At the behest of our fantastic tour guide from''African Horizons''and tour company''Perfect Africa''we sat for several hours in the afternoon on the balcony taking in the serenity of the crater.''It was a moment of reflection for me, while Tasha snapped photos of me drinking tea in a chair. The air at the crater’s edge feels mystical and the deep ties to humanity humbles visitors as they look on in awe.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Tanzania''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Tanzania:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Look the Part:''Check out our''favorite safari clothes''for Africa!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''A Quick Guide to Tanzania’s Selous Game Reserve''10 Tanzania Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''Explore The Beaches Of Zanzibar''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''The 15 Best Honeymoon Destinations in the World to go in 2018''August 23, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''A Complete Guide to the Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania''was last modified:''November 16th, 2017''by''Cameron''It has been a long time since we sat naively in Europe contemplating the idea of an Africa overland trip. Now 12 African nations, 25,000 miles, and zero flat tires later it’s a time for reflection on just what I have learned from overlanding Africa.''We’ll never forget the\xa0days we\xa0spent in our trusty Land Cruiser rolling through South Africa, Mozambique, Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Tanzania, Malawi, Rwanda, and Uganda.''Africa Overland Trip: What We’ve Learned''We’ve\xa0gotten our\xa015 minutes of fame''First things first, when you are overlanding Africa and get away from the tourist destinations of the''Serengeti,''Victoria Falls'', or''Zanzibar''you’re going to be\xa0treated a bit like a celebrity. Children waving, smiling,''screaming'', and running after you. Locals and villagers silently stare\xa0in curiosity. In general, people will be very open and curious about the foreigner in their land. Expect to feel a bit like Brad Pitt outside of Hollywood, especially if you are a Mzungu (white person).''We’ve had more than a few instances in East Africa where children will bounce up and down not seeming to contain their excitement screaming at the top of their lungs “A MZUNGU.” It’s cute, funny, welcoming, and heartwarming even if they sometimes do only think we are there to give them candy and money.''At the beginning of our\xa0overland trip through\xa0Africa we thought that there were tons more like us, but that proved wrong. Overlanders will often find themselves\xa0in empty campsite after empty campsite. It does not take much imagination\xa0to wonder\xa0what the big fuss is about when locals see two white people driving through their village in a big truck.''Please do not give children candy or money on your travels as it just encourages them to ask foreigners for this. Plus, we haven’t seen many reputable dentists throughout our travels in Africa. If you want to give I would suggest giving books, pens and paper, or food to their parents. It’s also worth noting if you give one child anything you must give them all something or you could\xa0cause a fight between them.''Watching kids bombard Cam for candy''Forget about asking for help''Most locals are\xa0curious and friendly, but that does not mean they are great navigators. We learned this the hard way a couple times after asking for help in remote villages. Either no one wants to say that they cannot help you for fear of disappointment. Or they just simply wish you would stop speaking a language they can’t understand well and will tell you whatever to make it stop.''Go that way – no that way – now go that way to reach your destination. Two hours later in the middle of''nowhere Uganda''on a one lane dirt track only big enough for a moped with almost no petrol left we decided –''No more asking locals for directions.''This isn’t to say that not a single person will be able to help with directions in Africa because this certainly isn’t true. However, an old fashion map and a GPS will do you better when you drive overland\xa0across\xa0Africa.''Maps.Me is your friend''Have you heard of the app''Maps.me''? If you haven’t and you are overlanding Africa, or anywhere, you may want to stop right now and download it. This handy map has some of the most remote routes on it through the middle of nowhere.''Forget all the other navigation apps and download offline maps with Maps.me of each country you will be in in Africa. We would literally be lost without it.''(Yes, we still have gotten majorly turned around in Africa)''It’s not an overland tour''There is''overlanding Africa''and then there are''overland tours''. No matter how many times we have cursed the African continent. No matter how much corruption, bad roads, dirt, long days, and difficulties we’ve had. \xa0We’re\xa0not convinced we would trade it for a traditional overland tour.''The places that we have been able to get to and see because we have our own vehicle and time frame have left me speechless. It’s much tougher than jumping on a tour. Don’t get me wrong we see the appeal of the overland tour companies, but the experience of doing it yourself is well worth the reward.''In Kasanka National Park – Zambia''For the love of God fill up the car''In high school I used to ride my 1996 Saturn until it was on fumes, to avoid having to pay for fuel.''Don’t be sixteen year\xa0old me in Africa.''Sometimes fuel\xa0stations are few and far between so planning a route with plans for fuel is important. Always ensure that you have enough fuel to reach your destination. Before any long term trip it pays to have a familiarity with your truck to understand its fuel economy in different environments. Cameron is always plotting distances between fuel points and what we estimate to burn. When it comes to an''overland equipment list, jerry cans''are one of the best investments.''A bicycle can go very very far''Did you know that you can fit a whole couch on the back of a motorbike? Or how about a store? Think only two people belong on a moped? Think again! There is room for four if not five people!''It always amazes us\xa0to see how much can be loaded on even the simplest of bicycles and mopeds in Africa. I do know there is major skill in balancing huge items on the back of bike, and I’m certain I would fall flat on my face. Props to these guys.''There are no rescue squads''An overland vehicle should be equipped with rescue items like an air compressor, tire repair kit, spare tires, tow ropes, a tool kit, high lift jack, shovel, axe, and a water\xa0supply. The expenses can add up, with an''already big investment in\xa0the car''. However,\xa0you need to be self-sufficient should the worst happen.''It took one instance of getting buried\xa0up to our chasis in sand deep in\xa0Moremi National Park. It was 100 degrees, remote, and full of''deadly animals from the big five''. We could have been stuck for days on the track had we waited for a rescue squad. In fact, there have been instances of unprepared travelers dying in the wilderness when their vehicle gets stuck.\xa0Fortunately,\xa0we were able to get ourselves out in under two hours, and had we been experienced it would have been less. If you want to know more,''check out what’s in our car here.''Officially Stuck in Botswana''You’re never too far from a toilet''No, I don’t mean one of those fancy rest stop toilets you can find off a highway in the US or Europe. While you won’t find a McDonalds to sneak into to do your business in Africa you will find nice open fields everywhere.''Make sure to keep some toilet paper stashed in the trunk for those long days, as pee breaks off the side of the road near a baobab will be the best toilet you’re going to get. If you aren’t really a bush goer, remember, you will likely want to go in the bush rather than the toilets you’ll find on the African roads.''Among the baobabs in Zimbabwe''Cosmetics\xa0are overrated''I usually only wear eye makeup to make up for my super blonde eyelashes when I travel, but for Africa, I completely cut it all out. Sweat, dirt, and makeup don’t blend together quite as well as concealer and blush so free your face and go all natural while overlanding Africa! You’ll likely not need it anyways since the African sun gives your face a nice glow!''I could have been born somewhere else''On a more serious note overlanding Africa has reminded us\xa0of how privileged we are in life. Traveling through rural, undeveloped villages and towns where the only source of water is from a sprocket 3 km’s down the road reminds\xa0us\xa0that we could have been born somewhere else.''Because no matter what curveballs life may throw at you, the biggest curveball is your birthplace. Were you born in a rural village with no access to proper education, a running toilet, or electricity? Or were you born in a western country to a good family worrying about first world problems? Many of us in North America, Australia, and Europe don’t even know how privileged we\xa0are until we see the other side.''Somewhere in Malawi''Just smile''Although we feel we have seen rampant poverty we are usually greeted with a smile in Africa.''Most people are warm and friendly''no matter what they are dealing with in life.\xa0We have come across some of the happiest people, which makes us wonder who is truly more fortunate at times.''Hanging out on Lake Malawi''The media sucks''While I can’t lie and say that we’ve felt''100% safe during our whole trip through Africa''I can count on one hand the number of times we’ve felt a little bit uneasy. Western media markets really play up Africa into being a scary and dangerous tourist destination that scares people into only traveling with an organized tour or not traveling the continent at all.''Not only that, but news outlets also like to lead people to believe that Africa is one big giant nation. A war in Somalia?''Translation:''Yup, definitely don’t go to Africa right now. Civil unrest in the DRC?''Translation:''You will die in Africa.''I will never travel into a conflict zone, but never will the media make up my mind on where to travel. And no, nothing bad has ever happened to us in Africa.''Hakuna Matata''A crash is never out of the question''It’s true. Most of the roads we’ve traveled through in Africa are downright scary and dangerous. They are pothole rigged, washed out from rain, and sometimes it’s hard to believe there ever was a road in the first place. To make matters worse local drivers can be terrible. They will overtake you without warning and stop in an instance.''We found the main roads in South Africa, Rwanda, and Tanzania to be pretty well maintained but anything off some of the major roads are deadly. Don’t think that the African capital cities are any better because traffic can be a downright nightmare. I can’t count the amount of semi’s (yes semi’s) that we have seen\xa0flipped over on the side of the road while overlanding Africa.''Great “roads” in Zambia''A little dust never hurt anyone''Prepare to get a little dirty driving on\xa0the dirt roads of Africa. I’m not talking about just you as an actual person, but your vehicle and all the belongings in there as well.''We stopped regularly washing our car about two weeks in Namibia and have probably cleaned our camping supplies at least ten times a month. You can’t stop the dust and dirt, so embrace it!''Aus, Namibia''Cows don’t give a shit''If there is one thing to take away from this whole Africa overland extravaganza it’s that cows literally do not give a shit. They have places to go and grass to eat and if they are in the middle of the road you are driving on then you will have to suck it up and wait. Consider the cows the stoplights of Africa. No matter how big or small you are, let them stand and stare at you while they know you have somewhere to be. Moo over!''Not big on reading? Here’s the video!''Read Next:''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''10 Unforgettable Wildlife Experiences To Have In Africa''How We Drove Across Africa for $300''Here Are The Charities In Africa We Support''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''was last modified:''April 11th, 2018''by''Natasha''It’s not something that happens often to us, but when we stepped out our Land Cruiser and arrived at Volcanoes Safaris Bwindi Lodge in Uganda we felt at ease. The individual rooms and lodge blended in with its\xa0natural surrounding. Bandas feature windows that opened wide to Bwindi Impenetrable National Park. Here there was no''end to the lodge''as the park spilled right onto the property that is frequented by mountain gorillas.''Bwindi Lodge''The Rooms at Bwindi Lodge''Bwindi Lodge has 8 spacious bandas that\xa0feature\xa0a balcony, large bathroom with his and her sinks, and a seating area overlooking the forests. The king size beds are\xa0comfortable with a large mosquito net draped over the bed. We rarely saw a mosquito while staying at Bwindi Lodge, but good mosquito nets are important in malaria zones.\xa0Guests at the Bwindi Lodge do not have to go without western luxuries. The lodge underwent renovations to add full modern bathrooms with flush toilets and solar\xa0showers recently and the result is incredible.''Rooms come with an assistant that will ensure their guests’ needs are met. The room is cleaned daily and features a turndown service with hot water bottles placed in the bed to fight off the cold mountain nights. Gorilla trekking can be a muddy affair so guests are given complimentary laundry and shoe cleaning.''The room is decorated with colorful fabrics often worn by locals and stunning prints of the gorillas while furniture is largely wood and does not detract from the surrounding forest. The room is simple in decoration and earth tones make for an inviting room and that feels at home in the forest.''A Lodge That Is Environmentally Friendly''Bwindi lodge does strive to be an eco-lodge in Africa. The\xa0lodge is run on solar power so there are no charging facilities in the room. However, there is a station\xa0in the main lounge where guests can charge their\xa0camera batteries, phones, and other gadgets safely.''Rainwater is never wasted and collected for use. The showers are solar heated, so you’re in for a treat when you have a really sunny day. However,\xa0on cloudy\xa0days bucket showers are heated by a fire and provided to all guests. We never had to use one of these as Uganda blessed us with her sunshine during our stay.''Our one recommendation would be to do away with the''plastic water bottles''. We have stayed at a number of lodges that have done so, and the effort makes a clear reduction in plastic waste.''The Surroundings''Bwindi Lodge is located just steps away from the local village, Nkwenda. However, once you walk down to the main lodge and bandas it’s easy to forget there is anything around but\xa0wilderness. The property\xa0effectively acts as a buffer between the growing village and the nearby park.''The lodge feels\xa0secluded away, yet it is only a few minutes walk away from the Bwindi Impenetrable National Forest park entrance. However, it actually feels as if it is within the national park and makes for a relaxing wildlife experience. It’s the perfect place for a good book, coffee, and complete tranquility.''The Activites at Bwindi Lodge''Yes, there are other reasons to travel to Buhoma other than gorilla trekking. We were quite surprised by the sheer number of activities on offer at Bwindi Lodge and it was hard to pick and choose what we could do with our limited\xa0time.''We chose to start off right in the forest and do the river walk offered around the park. The river walk starts at Bwindi Lodge and loops itself around in under an hour. Along the walk, we saw black and white colobus monkeys,''a blue duiker'', and stunning Ugandan birdlife.''Other outdoor activities on offer are hikes offered by UWA such Rushurra Hill, \xa0Muzabajirro Loop Trail, and the Munyanga River Trail. There are also village tours, Ugandan tea tours, and the''Bwindi Bar''. We liked the sound of Bwindi Bar so made a few efforts to stop by. Bwindi Bar is run and supported by the Volcanoes Safaris Partnership Trusts. It is a training institution and gateway into hospitality jobs for disadvantaged local youths. They serve up excellent coffee and other local Ugandan treats.''Run by the Volcanoes Safaris Partnership Trust a non-profit that works in local communities to promote conservation activities.''The Local Staff''I was pleased to find out that''all''of the staff are local Ugandans working hard in the tourism industry. Volcanoes Safaris prides itself on training, hiring, and empowering locals to completely staff their lodges and safaris.\xa0Even the managers are locals (which can be rare in Africa).''We found the staff at Bwindi Lodge to be friendly and accommodating to every request.\xa0Our laundry was cleaned free of charge, while coffee was brought to us in bed every morning, and cold gin and tonics were served to us every night before sundown.''Gorilla Trekking in Uganda''Bwindi Lodge is completely set up for to accommodate guests going Gorilla trekking.\xa0The night before trekking the managers will give you a gorilla trekking briefing. The next day a member of the staff will escort you, along with a packed lunch, gaiters, walking sticks, and plenty of bottled water to the trekking starting point.''Upon return from the trek the staff take your dirty and muddy shoes and clothes and clean them like they are new – oh yea…this isn’t their first rodeo. Gorilla trekking guests are then encouraged to relax with a hot lunch and finish off with a complimentary massage in the Bwindi Lodge massage room.''Gorilla trekking can be a strenuous\xa0experience, and the staff at the Bwindi Lodge are there to help you unwind after the trek. Don’t get too comfortable, though, we were told every week or so the gorillas walk right around the lodge to see what’s going on in the human world.''Check out all the detail on what it was like for us to go gorilla trekking in Uganda!''The Experience At Bwindi Lodge''Bwindi Lodge was the perfect place for us to have a memorable\xa0experience while gorilla trekking in Uganda. Their environmental and conservation\xa0efforts were duly noted and appreciated. The lodge gave clear support to the local communities and staff. At its core, the lodge is dedicated to aiding guests in gorilla trekking while ensuring\xa0general comfort, great amenities, support, and solid assistance. Full board rates start at $250 US per person in the high season and $188 US per person in the low season.''Check their rates and safari offers here!''What to bring gorilla trekking''What to wear''Lightweight and waterproof safari clothes are recommended''. The goal is to blend into the forest so greens, khakis, and general dark colors do well in Uganda.''I would recommend also bringing a''rain jacke''t in case you get caught up in a morning shower.''Gaters''or long hiking socks are recommended through the thick bush and to avoid those ants up your pants. Bwindi Lodge provided us with gaters to use.''Good walking shoes to finish your trek are preferred. I never do any long treks without my''Merrell Moab Ventilators.''Walking Stick: we were\xa0each provided one of these from Bwindi Lodge.''What to bring''Binoculars''are never a bad idea in Africa.''Gardening gloves:''If you like to grab trees and things when on a hike then make sure to bring some basic gardening gloves. Many of the trees and branches have tiny thorns on them.''Insect repellent with DEET''. Might as well throw some sunscreen in just in case.''Bring a good''carry-on sized backpack''to keep all your belongings in. Bwindi Lodge provided us with plenty of bottled water and food to bring on our trek.''I almost forgot to mention a camera! You’re going gorilla trekking so I’m sure you will want something to take photos with! We travel with a''Fujifilm X-T10''with a''200mm telephoto lens''which is what the photos in this post are taken with.''Plan Your Gorilla Trek in Uganda''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Look the part:''Here is our guide to choosing the''best safari clothes''for your adventure.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in Africa:''We suggest renting a car with''Auto Europe''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Thank you to Volcanoes Safaris for hosting us while we ventured around Bwindi. As always, all opinions expressed are our own.''Read Next:''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: African Safari Diary #2''July 30, 2017''A Quick Guide to Tanzania’s Selous Game Reserve''July 28, 2017''Zambia’s Beautiful Lower Zambezi National Park: African Safari Diary #1''July 27, 2017''Bwindi Lodge Review: A Home Away from Home in Uganda''was last modified:''December 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''We’ve been finding ourselves lost on the Tanzanian coast recently, and don’t ever want to leave. It’s this feeling of being cast away on shores of Africa in countries like Tanzania, Mozambique, or Kenya that is truly magical. The feeling is nothing like the beaches of Greece, Jamaica, Thailand, or even Zanzibar. When you find the right beach in Africa\xa0you feel as if you’re truly exploring. We found that at Ushongo Beach.''The Tanzanian coast is\xa0plentiful with dhows, white sand, aquamarine water, and thousands of palm trees. It all means you’re never too far from fresh fish, a tranquil spot to relax, refreshing water, and a coconut water. In other words, it is our happy place. We spent a large amount of time soaking up the''island sun on Zanzibar'', but we just weren’t ready to leave the beaches of Tanzania. So we set our sights on something with fewer tourists and more silence. This is the exact appeal of Ushongo Beach and The Tides Lodge.''Our Stay on Ushongo Beach''The Tides Lodge''After scooping up a new travel partner we made our way to The Tides Lodge on Ushongo beach near Pangani. A collection of''seven\xa0beach bungalows,''and three suites/house laid out across the secluded beach. Each cottage is ensuite and spacious. We found ourselves waking up in the morning completely refreshed to the sounds of the ocean and a sea breeze.''Our cottage had it’s own foot wash station because there is no\xa0need for shoes at The Tides Lodge. A private veranda and personal sun loungers built out on the beach\xa0is only steps away. The beach itself is a large bay of white sand, flanked by palm trees, and filled with the inviting\xa0warm water of the Indian Ocean.''Food On\xa0The Tanzanian Coast''When you make it to areas that are as remote as The Tides Lodge you don’t want to be worrying about what’s for dinner. It’s a common theme in Africa for lodges to provide half and full board options. Breakfast at the lodge included fresh fruit juice, coffee, fruit salad, eggs, muesli, and menu items like huevos rancheros, a favorite of mine. \xa0While lunch items consisted of tapas and light bites that are perfect for those hot beach days with dinner being a fresh mix of seafood.''Activities On\xa0Ushongo Beach''With four days of beach time, we made sure to spend a fair amount of time lounging around but needed some activities as well. So we took off one evening with ocean kayaks and made our way out to explore the bay and nearby mangrove. The mangrove involved some paddling, but it was well worth the effort and we treated ourselves to some much needed Kilimanjaro beers afterward.''The highlight of any trip to Ushongo Beach is Maziwe Island. Six miles out from the Tanzanian coast lies a small sandbar only accessible during low tide. This is one of the most beautiful islands off Tanzania. White sand spills across the top of a large coral reef that sits amidst\xa0a myriad of blues. For $45 guests can catch a ride out to the island to spend the day snorkeling, lounging, and have a picnic on the remote sand bank. We got lucky and had the place entirely to ourselves, something you won’t find in places like the beaches of Zanzibar.''As they say, a picture is worth a thousand words, so instead we’ve decided to share the island with a video instead. I dare you to watch and say you don’t want to go as soon as possible!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Mawimbi Villa''Ever wanted to stay in a six bedroom\xa0villa that has\xa0a team of staff, private pool, and a stunning beach as its backyard? Yea, so have we! That’s exactly what happened when we checked in to''Mawimbi Villa''off the Tanzanian Coast. The villas six bedrooms are all beautifully decorated and each room draws upon a theme of nature. We stayed in the “Buffalo Room” or the master bedroom which featured decorative elements that all came from the famous''big five\xa0animals''.''Each room had two entrances, one from inside the house and another facing out to the exterior wrap around deck. Every room faces the sea and has this feature, so you could say there is no bad room here. One of the best ways to spend the weekend at Mawimbi Villa is with a glass of wine in hand in one of the two lounge areas in the villa.''A Private Escape on Ushongo Beach''Our personal pool came with our staff delivering drinks and some cool floating Bluetooth speakers that connected to my music library on my phone. Coconut water? Check. Private Pool? Check. Music? Check. I was set for a solid afternoon to relax and take in the beautiful coastline.''To make matters only better the food at Mawimbi Villa is delightful. Many dishes take inspiration from the sea and the chef is quick to meet\xa0any necessary dietary requirements. It’s recommended to try and steal their passion fruit ceviche because it’s possibly one of the best seafood dishes we’ve had in all of Africa.''Perfect For Friends & Family''The most enticing element of Mawimbi Villa is it’s all inclusive price point. It’s perfect for a group of friends or family looking for an escape on the stunning coast of Tanzania. The villa can sleep 12 and no matter how many people are staying the price point remains the same with a full set of staff, food, and drink all included in the price. I’d wager it’s difficult to find that level of service for that many people anywhere else along the coast.''Check out the villa!''Final Thoughts''We can’t seem to get enough beach time when it comes to the coast of Africa. Every time we travel to a new place we’re blown away by its beauty. We’ve spent time in the''sand dunes of Mozambique'',''sipping cappuccinos in Cape Town'', and even chasing sand dunes on a''road trip through Namibia.''Ushongo Beach and the properties we stayed at there are gems along the coast of Tanzania. It’s the kind of place you leave and wonder why more people aren’t there.''Africa’s beauty continues to bewilder us, it’s just a matter of time until the rest of the world is clambering to explore more and more of its riches, the tranquil coastlines included. We just hope they remain untouched and delighting visitors as always!''Plan Your Trip to Ushongo Beach''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Pack Right:''Make sure to read up on''what to bring to the beach''before you leave.''Flights to Tanzania:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:\xa0I''f you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''How To Get to The Tides Lodge?:''The Tides Lodge and Mawimbi Villa are a few kilometers apart on Ushongo beach. They are both serviced by a private airstrip. With daily flight connections possible to the\xa0Mashado airstrip getting to the lodge is a breeze.''For booking inquiries contact''The Tides Lodge''or''Mawimbi Villa''.''Read More:''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''Why You Need to Stay on Ushongo Beach in Tanzania''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''Gorilla Trekking in Uganda is surreal and unlike any other experience in Africa. The atmosphere of the trek through\xa0the jungle mist is unreal. With each step your anticipation builds and the reward of seeing the last remaining mountain gorillas in the world is spectacular. The setting,''Bwindi Impenetrable\xa0National Park'', is\xa0arguably one of the most mystical\xa0in all of Africa.''Way before we decided to self-drive across\xa0Africa I asked fellow travelers about their gorilla trek experience.\xa0“To see the gorillas is\xa0incredible, it’s worth the high cost\xa0to see them in their natural habitat,” my\xa0friend had told\xa0me. It was an easy decision to add gorilla trekking to our''Africa bucket list.''So, when we had the opportunity to\xa0go gorilla trekking we made our way to Uganda to visit the largest population of mountain gorillas in the world.''Gorilla Trekking in Uganda''Gorilla trekking is a hike into Bwindi''Impenetrable''National Park, a jungle that is home to mountain gorillas. The trek involves getting a little dirty and bushwhacking through thick jungle with an experienced local guide to find a troop of habituated gorillas.''Where are the Mountain Gorillas in Uganda?''Mountain Gorillas can only be found in the Virunga mountains in the DRC, Rwanda, and Uganda and also in the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park. Uganda holds 60% of the total mountain gorillas left in the world with about 400 of them residing in''Bwindi Impenetrable National Park''. Bwindi is the most popular place to trek the gorillas in Uganda. The park is located in the Southwestern part of the country and is one of the most diverse national parks in East Africa.''Bwindi is divided into four regions:''Buhoma''region,''Ruhija''region,''Rushaga''region, and''Nkuringo''region. Make sure to book your accommodation where your gorilla trekking permit is issued. Or contact your accommodation to help arrange your permits.''Buhoma Region''The Buhoma region is the most popular region for trekkers. There are four groups of gorillas near Buhoma that are habituated to humans. The group names are''Mubare'',''Habinyanja,''Rushegura'', and the''Nkuringo''group.''What to expect when you Gorilla Trek in Uganda?''A typical day of trekking starts at a designated meeting point. Ours happened to be the Buhoma park headquarters. We showed up at 7:30 for a short video and gorilla briefing with the''Ugandan Wildlife Authority''. From there we were divided into groups assigned to the different groups.''Groups consist of no more than eight people. Small numbers are easier to manage\xa0and do\xa0not\xa0overwhelm the gorillas. Cameron and I were assigned to the “H Group” with three other people – five trekkers in total. We set\xa0out to track down\xa0the Habinyanja family. A family of 17 gorillas it is the largest habituated gorilla family in Bwindi National Park.''Starting Point For Gorilla Trekking''Some groups start their trek from the park headquarters, while others will have to drive to a starting point into the forest. You typically will not\xa0know until the day of if you will need to drive or start your trek from the headquarters. We have our own''truck''so the 30-minute drive to the other side of the forest was no problem.''Once we drove to our designated starting point and parked it was time for the physical stuff. We followed our guide, Boaz, through the thick of the forest and up and down the rolling hills of Uganda. The five of us were accompanied by two armed guards for security.''Length Of The Gorilla Trek''Finding the gorillas can take anywhere from one to five hours (sometimes longer). These are wild animals and the trackers have to locate where the gorillas have gone each day. It took our group less than two hours to find the H group deep in the jungle. The trek was mildly difficult, but our whole group ranged in age from 26-60 and everyone kept up just fine. I would say that if you are in at least decent shape and health a gorilla trek in Uganda will prove enjoyable.''If you’re worried about the trek we would recommend hiring some of the local porters. They porters come from the surrounding villages and cost $15 day plus a tip.''Interacting with our second closest living relatives''After we found the gorillas we had one hour to observe, ask questions, and take photos and video of our encounter. There is no drinking or eating around the gorillas and flash photography is prohibited.''Gorillas share about 98% DNA with us and they are highly suspectable to human diseases so humans should not walk closer than seven meters from the gorillas, unless they approach you.''The entire hour we couldn’t take our\xa0eyes off the family. They each had their own personality and demeanor that made for the most intimate\xa0wildlife encounter. When the gorillas look into\xa0your eyes it is humbling. One young female\xa0gorilla ran up to Cameron to grab his arm out of playfulness and curiosity.''Right after she grabbed Cameron’s arm!''These gorilla groups are familiar with humans. We never once felt like we were in danger with the mighty animals. We just felt as if we had wandered into a foreign home and quietly\xa0observed the father, mothers, and children going about their daily lives.''After an hour and two minutes of our\xa0unforgettable gorilla time was up. Too much time with the gorillas could do harm and make them agitated and uncomfortable. We made the trek back through the forest and ate our packed lunch while reminiscing about our once in a lifetime wildlife encounter.''Best Time To Go''Gorilla Trekking in Uganda''Gorilla trekking in Uganda is a year round activity and permits are issued every day. However, most people prefer to stay dry and travel during Uganda’s dry season which is''May-September''and''January and February''. Bright and sunny days are more prominent during these months and visitors are much less likely to experience''those rains down in Africa.''We went gorilla trekking in the middle of March – low and rainy season in Uganda. We’ve managed to miss high season throughout most of the countries we have traveled through in Africa and I prefer it that way. Crowds are fewer and rates can sometimes be cheaper. We experienced rains, but they aren’t non-stop rainstorms all day. Instead, they are short amounts of heavy rainfall throughout the day keeping us\xa0cool and comfortable.''I believe I have to attribute our small group size of five to the fact that it was low season in Uganda. A small group meant that we were able to keep up with our guide more efficiently. This also led to a more intimate experience with the gorillas. It’s also worth noting that gorilla permits are reduced during the rainy season from $600 to $450 to encourage tourism in Uganda.''How Many Mountain Gorillas Are There in the World?''Sadly due\xa0to poaching, war, disease, and habitat loss it is estimated that there are only around 850 Mountain gorillas left in the world. The good news is that with implemented conservation efforts between Rwanda, Uganda, and DRC their numbers are slowly rising.''Uganda Gorilla Permit Cost''Ugandan gorilla permits cost\xa0individuals $600 for one day or one hour with the gorillas. This is the mid-range price point. The Rwandan gorilla permits cost $750 (''UPDATE''They are now $1500) and DRC gorilla permits cost $400. We preferred going gorilla trekking in Uganda as they are cheaper than in Rwanda and the country is more stable and safe than the DRC.''Uganda also holds more gorillas than neighboring countries and besides the gorillas, there are\xa0plenty of other wildlife and birdlife to see in the country! Such as, the tree climbing lions of''Queen Elizabeth National Park''.''In the off season, (April, May, and November), permits run for a discount. The cost is $450. This means fewer people, a little more mud, and a lower cost.''How To Acquire A Gorilla Permit''The easiest way to acquire gorilla trekking permits in Uganda is to go with a local operator. A packaged deal that includes your lodging, transport, food, and permits will save you a lot of time and headache when booking. However, it is''possible''to do the trek by yourself if you have your own transport or patience on a local Ugandan bus\xa0and can get to Bwindi.''It is not advisable to show up to the park without gorilla trekking permits, as they only issue a set number per day and during high season it can get busy. Instead, I suggest contacting the''Ugandan Wildlife Authority''at least''one month before your arrival to Uganda to set up your gorilla trek on your own. If this is not\xa0an option check out their office in Kampala to see if you can get a gorilla trekking permit in person.''For ease and convenience, I recommend going with a company like Volcanoes Safaris to do all the work for you. Although they are a bit expensive, it’s good to know that for every booking they receive they donate $100 to conservation and local communities. Although we ended up driving to Bwindi ourselves we stayed at their beautiful''Bwindi Lodge''and they specifically cater to guests that are\xa0going on a gorilla trek.''Here’s another great tour!''What to Bring and Pack for Gorilla Trekking in Uganda''Come prepared for muddy and wet conditions. It’s pretty green forest, meaning things get a little moist.''What to wear for a gorilla trek''Lightweight and waterproof safari clothes are recommended''. The goal is to blend into the forest so greens, khakis, and general dark colors do well in Uganda. I cannot stress the importance of layers and long sleeves enough.\xa0The altitude is forever changing and one minute you are cold and the next burning hot. Whatever you do – bring one long sleeve shirt! The meanest of mean fire ants reside in the forest and they will find you and kill you. Okay, they won’t kill you, but you will want to kill each and every one of them as they attack your bare skin – I’m speaking from a bad experience with a tank top – don’t make my mistake and bring a''good safari shirt.''I would recommend also bringing a''rain jacke''t in case you get caught up in a morning shower.''Gaters''or long hiking socks are recommended through the thick bush and to avoid those ants up your pants.''We recommend a good pair of''safari boots''. I never do any long treks without my''Merrell Moab Ventilators.''What to bring for a gorilla trek''Walking Stick: we were provided one of these where we stayed at Bwindi Lodge, which is an ideal place to stay while tracking\xa0the gorillas.''Binoculars''are never a bad idea in Africa.''Gardening gloves:''If you like to grab trees and things when on a hike then make sure to bring some basic gardening gloves. Many of the trees and branches have tiny thorns on them.''Insect repellent with DEET''. Might as well throw some sunscreen in just in case.''Bring a good''carry-on sized backpack''or''great travel daypack''to keep all your belongings in. It is advisable to bring one to two liters of bottled water on your trek as well. Make sure to have your nearby lodge provide you with a packed lunch in case those gorillas take four to five hours to find.''I almost forgot to mention a camera! You’re going gorilla trekking so I’m sure you will want something to take photos with! We travel with a''Fujifilm X-T10''with a''200mm telephoto lens''which is what the photos in this post are taken with. Here is our full list of''travel cameras''as well as a f''ew safari camera suggestions''for the rest of Africa.''Bwindi''Impenetrable National Park Accommodation''There are a number\xa0of accommodation options around Bwindi National park ranging from luxury to camping. We took a break from the tent to stay at''Volcanoes Safaris Bwindi Lodge''for a few nights. They provide full board, all alcoholic drinks, comfortable beds, complimentary massages, and laundry. The lodge is\xa0eco-friendly and generate power by solar panels and heat their water with solar tanks. It is a ten-minute walk to the park entrance as well. For a more budget-friendly option I recommend checking out''Nkuringo Bwindi Gorilla''Lodge''or''Buhoma Community Campsite''if you would like to do the more''DIY camping thing.''How\xa0to Save\xa0the Last Mountain Gorillas?''Visit them! The price to see the gorillas for just one hour is expensive. However,\xa0it’s important to understand\xa0that gorillas\xa0are critically endangered animals. We learned that 25% of the money earned from gorilla trekking in Uganda goes back to the local communities. The tourism creates local jobs. And the majority of the permit contributes to the conservation of the mountain gorillas. I’ve seen and chatted with many Ugandans, trekkers, and the Ugandan Wildlife Authority and they care about the preservation of these\xa0animals. It is possible that they will still be living in the wild for future generations. Gorilla trekking is not only an unforgettable African wildlife experience, but a donation to rural communities and wildlife conservation.''Book your tour here!''We did it!''Check Out Our Vlog!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Gorilla Trek in Uganda''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Look the part:''Here is our guide to choosing the''best safari clothes''for your adventure.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read Next:''An Ideal Self Drive Uganda Itinerary''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''Gorilla Trekking in Uganda • All Your Questions Answered''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Natasha''Getting ready to go on your first African safari? In this post we share our best African safari tips. We’ll never forget our first safari in Africa. It was our third day on the continent and we drove off headstrong into''Kruger National Park at sunrise''blasting''The Circle Of Life.''A lot has changed since that day and we’ve now spent plenty of time in game viewers, walking, and''driving ourselves around the wilds of Africa.''We’ve been on safari in just about every country in''Southern and East Africa''. So, what have we learned from our first safari experiences?''Our 10 Best African Safari Tips''No Yelling!''Shhh… You aren’t in a zoo and the animals are not domesticated. When safari goers are\xa0visiting animals in their natural habitat the excitement can be overwhelming. The urge\xa0to get up, wave your\xa0arms, and yell is not something we would ever recommend. When on safari humans are just guests in animals\xa0home and should act accordingly.''Many of the animals are dangerous and it doesn’t matter if you’re in a truck if an elephant decides to charge. In fact, while elephants may be some of the most incredible animals on this planet, they’re also immensely dangerous and''a member of the big five animals''.''Dress The Part''Not only is it fun to don the safari get up, but those green and khaki clothes actually serve a practical purpose too.''Safari clothes are purpose built''and made to be comfortable, blend in with the environment, and hold up to the elements of the African bush. That doesn’t mean you need to go full blown leopard print or get a monocle, but it does mean wearing clothes that are appropriate to the safari environment.''There’s also the argument that you can wear whatever you want for safari clothes since you’ll be in a car, that is unless''you’re going on bush walks''where you won’t want the animals spotting any odd colors! If you’re doing some bush walks we recommend packing a good pair of''safari boots''to wear.''Check out some of our other posts:''The Best Safari Shirts for Men and Women''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''How to Pick a Great Safari Hat and Protect Yourself from the Sun''Ultimate Women’s Safari Clothing Checklist ( + Other Safari Packing List Items)''Now! Now!''Anyone who is familiar with “Africa time” will understand that there are several meanings to the word now. There is “now,” “just now,” and “now now.” “Now” could mean anywhere from five minutes to two months later. “Just now” means in the next hour or so. And “now-now” actually means now – the moment. \xa0So, when you’re on safari it’s best to put the technology away and enjoy the now-now. There is never a better time to feel in touch with nature than a digital detox in the bush.''Telephoto or go home''Although you’re going to get closer to the African animals than ever before to really capture them on camera requires a telephoto lens. Something around 200mm plus should do the job. Want to know what some of the best wildlife photographers use? Check out our guide to''a camera for safari''. An 800mm lens, granted I’d say most beginner photographers can not afford to buy one of those. Just get ready for lens envy while on safari. We travel with a''Fujifilm X-T10''with a''200mm lens.''Wake Up Early''It’s something you’re going to have to learn to live with in Africa. Animals are most active in the morning and evening, as the mid-day is too hot for them to be moving around. This is why most safari days consist of two game drives, a morning one and an evening one. The morning typically involves waking up at the crack of dawn and having coffee on the go. Evening game drives are our favorite since they leave in the afternoon and end with\xa0a cold gin and tonic.''Sundowner time''The best way to end a safari day is without a doubt with a beautiful sunset and a drink. Or in other words a “sundowner.” Are you familiar with the term sundowner? No? We would suggest you familiarize yourself with the ritual of having a drink at sunset to celebrate a long African\xa0days end.''Bring Binoculars''Identifying birds or spotting what animal is on the horizon requires some great eyes or\xa0a good pair of binoculars. Since most of us do not have the eyes of an eagle we’d say a pair of binoculars is crucial. We recommend you pick up a''decent pair''that will last longer than one trip.''Look It’s A Bird''One of our favorite activities we’ve learned about on safari is birding. Yes, that’s right we’ve become those people… Birders. We use to make fun of them. I even replaced my mother’s binoculars and bird book bag with potatoes once. However, after seeing our thousandth elephant\xa0we realized it’s time to look for something new. Enter the birds.''There are thousands of variations of birds and species. Some are physically beautiful, some have splendid calls, and others are just fascinating like the picture below. It is a pied kingfisher. One of our favorite birds who hangs our around rivers and lakes in search of its next meal.''Excuse Me Sir, What’s That?''Don’t be afraid to ask questions. I may be guilty of wanting to know it all, but showing some curiosity creates for a better safari and will probably make your guide happy. The safari guest learns more and develops a better understanding of African wildlife and what they are seeing. We find that the curiosity\xa0brings the\xa0passion out of our guides and enhances our whole game drive experience.''Stay Healthy''This one covers a lot, but you are spending a lot of time in the bush and a lot of time sitting. Here’s how we suggest mitigating the health risks of both.''Drink plenty of water from one of these''travel water bottles''.''Keep yourself covered from the sun. I’ll never forget the day, I was burned so bad that I had blisters on my face. Bring some sunblock and a hat!''Stay limber. In between game drives make sure to walk some, do some yoga, exercise, or stretch.''Take antimalarial medicine if you are a worrier. We are not your doctor, but we recommend taking doxycycline. We have periodically taken it, but due to the amount of time we have spent in Africa we have chosen to avoid long term doses of the antimalarial medicines and use the mosquito avoidance strategy. Cover up at night, wear insect repellant, use a mosquito net, and be\xa0aware of surroundings.''Get some shut eye. This one shouldn’t be too hard, but you’ll need to go to bed early on safari since you’ll be rising at the crack of dawn.''Take it easy on your stomach. Nine months in and we’re used to the local bacteria. However, we’ve met many a traveler who have stomach issues eating the same food we do. We suggest taking it easy to begin. Watch out for the skins of fruits and veggies, avoid large quantities of meat, and avoid spicy food and check where ice is coming from. That being said the majority of safari lodges are exceptional at taking the proper hygienic steps when it comes to preparing food.''Bring a small medical kit with some basic needs for emergencies.''Plan Your\xa0First Safari''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Look the part:''Here is our guide to choosing the''best safari clothes''for your adventure.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''Things to Know Before You Travel to Botswana''Our journey across Africa: A true African safari''December 18, 2017''10 Safari Bags to Consider for Your Trip to Africa''August 31, 2017''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''10 African Safari Tips You Need To Know!''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''There are a plethora of places to visit and things to do in Zanzibar. The East African island packs a whole lot of punch for things to do and experience. It’s safe to say that excitement and relaxation can be had on every corner of Zanzibar. We arrived with no knowledge of the island, but set off to exploring Jozani Forest, Paje Beach, and even a cruise on the local boat, a dhow. With\xa0almost a month on the island we were able to cover most of hot spots. Looking for where to start once you arrive in Stone Town? Here are the top places to visit in Zanzibar.''Places to Visit in Zanzibar''Walk Through\xa0Jozani Forest''Jozani Forest is one of the most popular places to visit in Zanzibar. The forest is the last sanctuary in the world to see the Zanzibar red colobus monkey. The forest is located in the Eastern part of the island and is one of the lushest places on Zanzibar. It’s a staunch reminder of what we have done to our environment over the centuries.''It’s easy to get lost and find the monkeys in the Jozani forest. There are many nature trails leading through beautiful forest and the red colobus monkeys are not shy at all. After your visit to Jozani, be sure to cross the street and visit the Mangrove forest.''I would recommend getting to Jozani forest before 9 am as bus loads of tour groups arrive after that and the monkeys are bombarded by people.''Book your tour here!''Seaweed Center''We decided to visit the seaweed center right in Paje\xa0after we''read this great post''from our friends at Hey Dip Your Toes In. The Seaweed center is a women’s initiative that employees local women to make products from the abundance of seaweed around the island. Guest can take a full tour to see the daily tasks of the seaweed farmers, or they can just relax at the shop with a glass of seaweed fruit juice!''House of Wonders''Or the “Palace of Wonders” is the tallest building in Stone Town and a main Zanzibar point of interest. It’s right next to the Old Fort and is\xa0a sight to see while in Stone Town. It is also\xa0the spot for\xa0the first elevator in all of East Africa. History buffs can learn about the history of Stone Town here and view old exhibits and rooms. The name comes from all of the modern amenities the house had first in Stone Town such as plumbing and electricity. However, it now has none of those wonders as it\xa0under renovation and at the time of writing, entering is not permitted.''Book your tour here!''Paje Beach''If there is a backpacker spot on Zanzibar, it’s Paje beach. The beach has hip cafes, burger joints, kite surfing companies, bars, and hostels making it one of the great places to visit in Zanzibar.\xa0We spent a few days relaxing in the inviting turquoise waters which is the perfect thing to do for those looking for free things to do in Zanzibar. For those looking to have an active holiday in\xa0Zanzibar the most popular thing to do in Paje is kite surf. There are an endless amount of schools and rental shops all dying to take you out on the water and show you the ropes of kitesurfing. \xa0If you’re not a beginner Paje\xa0has just the right amount of wind to spend the entire Zanzibar holiday improving your kitesurfing skills. It’s often considered one of the best places in the world to go kite surfing and it’s easy to understand why when you feel the wind and see the gorgeous water.''Spice Tour''Zanzibar is often referred to as “Spice Island” for its centuries\xa0of clove, nutmeg, vanilla, and cinnamon production and is one of the top 5 things to do in Zanzibar. Most of these spice tours depart from Stone Town and take you to a large spice farm to see, touch, and taste the many flavors of Zanzibar. I would recommend bringing decent walking shoes as it may be muddy. Make sure to bring extra cash in case you want to buy some spices and tea to take home. Don’t come full as there is a full tasting at the end of the tour.''Book a spice tour here!''Safari Blue Cruise''After having a memorable time''sailing on a dhow in Mozambique''we decided that we couldn’t miss it on Zanzibar. So we set up with the guys at Colors of Zanzibar for a fun day out at sea. We departed early morning from the fishing town of Fumba. The team specializes in individual tours so we had the pleasure of having the entire dhow to ourselves.''We made our way to a little sandbank off the coast of Zanzibar, which was about three hours away from being swallowed by high tide. On this island, visitors can get the best views of the blue ocean while snorkeling and enjoying the cool morning air with fresh fruit.''Afterward, there are options to keep snorkeling or see a hidden lagoon before enjoying a seafood buffet lunch on Kwale Island. It is here that there are massive baobabs, small shops, and more beach paradise. Don’t expect the snorkeling to be great though, unfortunately, the area the safari blue cruise takes place has become so massively commercial the reef has been ruined. A sad sight to see and a bit of a disappointment for the marine enthusiast.''Prison Island''Take a boat just 5 km away from Stone Town to reach the iconic Prison Island, or Changuu Island to be technical. Built in the late 1800’s this prison was supposed\xa0to serve as an island for slaves, violent prisoners, and quarantined.''The main joy of visiting prison island is seeing the nearby tortoise sanctuary. There\xa0are some of the giant Aldabross tortoises that also call the''Seychelles home''. Make sure to bring sun block for the boat transfers and snorkeling.''Go to Prison Island!''Where to eat and drink on Zanzibar''The Tea House Restaurant''Anyone wanting a night out in Stone Town should visit the''Tea House Restaurant''at Emerson on Hurumzi. The restaurant is located on top of the boutique hotel in the middle of the kasbah. And it has one of the best views of Stone Town making it my favorite thing to do in Zanzibar. They get quite popular for sundowners and dinner so we would recommend making a reservation beforehand. We spent an entire evening here\xa0drinking spicy cocktails, listening to live Zanzibari music, and chowing down on delicious Persian-inspired cuisine before retiring to our gorgeous room.''The Rock Restaurant''The Rock restaurant''is pretty synonymous with Zanzibar and is usually mentioned in every Zanzibar guide. The restaurant is located in Pongwe (the\xa0southeast\xa0part of the island) and is accessible by motorbike or taxi cab from Paje. We made the special trip out to The Rock to get some nice photos of the iconic spot. If you visit during\xa0high tide and a free boat taxi will deliver you to the rock (unless you feel like swimming).''We wanted to get food and drinks but be warned that the prices are sky high for Zanzibar. I suppose it’s the price you pay to have dinner on the Indian Ocean. We didn’t have reservations and weren’t given great service because of this so if you plan to go I would highly suggest calling ahead.''The Zanzibar Coffee House''This Zanzibar Cafe is located right next to Emerson Spice in the heart of Stone Town. We had lunch and breakfast here a few times, but nothing was ever as memorable as the time we sat there and''documented Zanzibari life''. It’s our favorite photo series to date and was even featured by Lonely Planet.''The Zanzibar Coffee house roasts all its own coffee and serves up anything from cafe lattes to delicious vegetable chapati wraps. Once you walk into the cafe it feels as if you are transported back in time to a coffee house in the old Arabic world. Even if you don’t like coffee this is a must visit. Make sure to visit''Upendo''right across the street for any shopping you may want to do. Upendo employs all local woman through education and teaches them how to sew beautiful clothes. We found ourselves in here a few times for unique clothing and jewelry for both men and women at an affordable price.''Park Hyatt Zanzibar Happy Hour''For great cocktails in Stone Town head to the''Park Hyatt Zanzibar.''There is a half price happy hour every day\xa0starting at 18:00 and includes all drinks. So if you’re craving a New York cocktail off\xa0the coast of Africa the Park Hyatt is calling your name. We even got our bourbon fix, making us two happy Americans.''Where to stay on Zanzibar?''Hakuna Majiwe Beach Lodge''We stayed at''Hakuna Majiwe Lodge''on the Southern edge of the beautiful Paje Beach. This beach hideaway has cute and rustic bungalows perched atop the white soft sand in this area. The bungalows open up right to the beach and are not near the center of Paje – meaning you can sit in your hammock all day without being bothered! I loved staying in our beach front bungalow here since I had views of the beach while still being in an air conditioned room.''The main lodge at Hakuna Majiwe is filled with some of the most pleasant and helpful staff I have come across in Tanzania. Each staff member goes out of their way to ensure your stay in Zanzibar is perfect. Mornings and evenings can easily be spent here. Free tea and coffee, WiFi, and a strong communal feeling is what you get at Hakuna Majiwe.''The lodge is filled with traditional Maasai who are the guards of East Africa. Just because they are security guards doesn’t mean they are scary! We loved chatting with the Maasai here and teaching them beach tennis\xa0on the beach.''Hakuna Majiwe is one of the best places to stay in Paje and is steps away from the action of the area while still being secluded enough to enjoy a beach holiday in Zanzibar. Their pool, hammocks, and beach set up make\xa0for the perfect home away from home in Zanzibar.''Check Prices Now!''Tulia Unique Beach Lodge''One of our other favorite places to stay was at''Tulia Beach Lodge on Pongwe Beach''. Said to be one of the most beautiful beaches in the world, Pongwe offers visitors bright blue waters and empty beaches. We spent a few days soaking up the sun here while watching the dhows sail by.''Tulia operates on an all-inclusive model meaning you can relax in Zanzibar drinking\xa0as many Pina Coladas as you want, without being judged. I made sure to enjoy the drinks\xa0in their surreal hammocks and majestic pool. Nondrinkers should not worry for there are two waterslides and water sports to keep yourself entertained\xa0at Tulia.''Check the Price!''Whether you’re''coming from the Serengeti''or jumping into the rest of East Africa a trip to Zanzibar should be on your\xa0radar. There are so many things to do on Zanzibar that visitors never risk getting bored!''Bonus Video!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Zanzibar, Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Zanzibar:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''Flights to Zanzibar:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Read More:''10 Tanzania Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''Kilindi Zanzibar: The Best Zanzibar Honeymoon Resort There Is''Inside Tanzania’s Amazing Ruaha National Park''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''July 29, 2017''10 Fabulous Places to Visit in Zanzibar''was last modified:''November 12th, 2017''by''Natasha''For many, Tanzania may be the most well-known country in Africa. It is the country that has become synonymous\xa0with the Serengeti, Mount Kilimanjaro, and Zanzibar. People from all over the world flock to Tanzania to have a safari in some of the best national parks in the world. The country\xa0is staggeringly beautiful, populated\xa0by a warm\xa0Swahili culture, and home to some of the best wildlife on this planet. Here are our top Tanzania travel tips to know before you go.''Tanzania Travel Tips''Hakuna Matata\xa0is real''You know The Lion King?''Scratch that''I know you know''The Lion King''. It’s pretty tough not to know the\xa0song Hakuna Matata, that Timon and Pumbaa sing to young Simba. While the opening song “The Circle of Life” may not be Swahili, (''it’s Zulu''),\xa0Hakuna Matata is a\xa0real saying in Swahili! Yes, “Hakuna Matata” in Swahili\xa0does indeed mean “no worries.” So, when\xa0the days get hard Zanbari’s\xa0will be sure to let you know that it will be alright in the end. However, most Tanzanians will use “Hamna shida” outside of the tourist hotspots themselves.''Going off other Lion King celebrities''Nala''means gift in Swahili, while''Rafiki''is a friend, and''Simba''is a lion.''Have Some Deep Pockets For A Safari''The fuel, food, and camping costs are less than many other''African nations we have traveled''. However, where you save on those costs, you’ll slowly lose money to the Tanzanian\xa0park fees.''Tanzanian Parks''charge foreigners an arm and nearly a leg to enter their parks.''I’m all for paying for the conservation of a natural environment; however when the price is fifty times more than the local price I feel that I am just getting had. The Serengeti, for instance, costs a whopping $76 to enter, the''Ngorongoro Crater Conservation''will run you $76, and to actually drive any\xa0vehicle into the crater it will set you back $297 (a day). Make sure to have your''credit card''handy because this is the only method of payment accepted at the gate.''Play Nice With the Police''This only really applies to self-drivers, but the Tanzanian police are littered\xa0across\xa0the roads of the country just waiting to hand out “tickets.” You will be able to see them from afar in their all white police uniforms sticking a hand out telling you to stop in the middle of the road.''Be sure to stick to the speed limits and only overtake other cars when it’s safe.''Self-drivers should also equip their car with a fire extinguisher, wear shoes, safety vest, and red triangles''or a bribe may be brewing up. Most fines are 30,000 shillings and the police will attempt to get you to pay on the spot.''If you suspect you are getting bribed insist on an official receipt from the police or tell them you will pay at the next police station. If you really weren’t breaking any rules this should get them off you back, it has gotten us out of many “tickets.”''Throughout our six weeks in Tanzanian, I can’t even count on my hands and toes the number of times we were pulled over. We probably got asked for a bribe five of those times and only ended up paying 30,000 Tanzanian shillings in two instances. One when we were going 11km over the limit and one when we were going 3 km over the speed limit. Yes. 3 km’s.''When dealing with police my best Tanzania travel tip is to remain calm, patient, and polite. Kill ’em with kindness.''Beaches, Plains, and Mountains – Oh My!''Tanzania travel has so much to offer tourists it’s overwhelming. Tanzania has''beautiful turquoise beaches in Zanzibar'',\xa0lush mountain vistas in the Usumbara mountains, the tallest peak in Africa, wild jungles in\xa0the Mahale Mountains, and endless plains in\xa0the Serengeti.\xa0With a country that’s rich in wildlife and culture, it’s hard to get bored.''If you make the effort to travel to\xa0Tanzania we would recommend experiencing\xa0several\xa0different climates. The most popular route for many is to finish a safari or Kilimanjaro climb with some much-needed relaxation on''one of the best hotels on Zanzibar.''Those Shillings''The national currency of Tanzania is the Tanzanian Shilling. At the time of writing the exchange rate is around 2200 shillings to $1 USD. We found ATM’s in most\xa0major town; however,\xa0almost all ATMs\xa0have a high withdrawal fee (8000-15000 shilling).''USD is accepted at many tourist hotspots in Tanzania, but it is common to receive a bad exchange rate. You may as well leave your credit cards tucked away since they are rarely accepted outside of tourist hotspots and hotels.''Check out how we deal with our cash and cards while abroad.''The Tanzanians are Amazing''“I’m sure you won’t find the Tanzanians very friendly,” someone had told us just a few months earlier. We were very much anticipating arriving in Tanzania, but more than a few people had described the locals as unwelcoming, cold, and just overall rude. Hearing this about Tanzanians certainly was not\xa0inviting; however, from the second we crossed the border we were blown away by''how friendly\xa0everyone was.''Not one day passed in the country without hearing children shout\xa0“Jambo,” or\xa0“hello”. Or meeting\xa0adults who would\xa0say “Karibu sana” or “welcome” and asking us “h''abari” or “how are you.” They smiled, they waved, and they welcomed us into their country.''It melts my heart thinking about the kindness of the Tanzanians.''Kilimanjaro is there! And so is the beer!''I was surprised to learn how\xa0many people don’t know Mt. Kilimanjaro is in Tanzania. The town of Moshi, at the base of Kilimanjaro, is where many adventurers come to start their trek to the summit of Mt. Kilimanjaro.''Kilimanjaro is the highest point in Africa at 5895 meters. It’s one of the biggest tourist attractions in Tanzania, but it will set you back about $1500-$3000 to climb it on the cheap\xa0end. \xa0If\xa0you want the views without the climb I recommend heading to Moshi anyway and trying to get up into the mountains or hike to base camp. Don’t forget the Kilimanjaro beer that is one of the national beers of Tanzania and is readily available at any bar – sweat and hike not included.''Book a Kilimanjaro Trek Here!''Don’t Drink the Water''It is best not to drink the water in Tanzania. We’ve been getting around most of Africa without having to produce unnecessary waste and save money with our''Lifestraw Go''; however, in Tanzania, we aren’t even using that.''Bottled water is cheap and readily available here and you can expect to pay anywhere from 1000-2000 shilling per 1.5 liters. \xa0I still recommend purchasing the''Lifestraw Go''for other points in Africa and for those times when you are in desperate need of filtered water.''Ahh, the Internet!''Surprisingly enough, the''internet actually works quite well in Tanzania''(writing this from the back of a taxi right now). Yes, it’s true the internet connection around Africa is generally very poor; however, the 3G connection in Tanzania is spot on. We have been able to get a secure and stable 3G connection from in the middle of the Usambara mountains to the base of Kilimanjaro.''The next best part? The data in Tanzania is very affordable. We decided to get a sim card with Vodacom as soon as we entered the country. The sim card itself cost us 1000 Tanzania shilling, while the actual data cost us 12,000 shilling for 10 GB valid for seven days. \xa0No more completely wireless nights here!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Tanzania''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Tanzania:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Remember that Tanzania uses the British three prong plug.''Get one before you land''.''Read More:''A Quick Guide to Tanzania’s Selous Game Reserve''Inside Tanzania’s Amazing Ruaha National Park''A Complete Guide to the Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania''Why You Need to Stay on Ushongo Beach in Tanzania''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''10 Tanzania Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''was last modified:''November 12th, 2017''by''Natasha''We’d been on Zanzibar for nearly two weeks by the time we checked into Kilindi Zanzibar and had high hopes after the few photos we had seen of the resort. Kilindi is a collection of well-spaced\xa0white domed villas that look as if they were built for a sultan. Although no Sultan was involved in the making they do feel fit for a King and Queen. We found Kilindi Zanzibar to be the best escape for anyone looking for a\xa0Zanzibar honeymoon.''The Ultimate Zanzibar Honeymoon at Kilindi''The Pavilions''The pavilions at Kilindi are one of a kind, designed tastefully with minimalistic flair. \xa0Each “room” has three circle pavilions that open up to the tranquility of the Indian ocean. There is the main bedroom, open air bathroom, and then a private lounging deck. In each setting, you are completely at one with the Zanzibar nature.''There are two pools in each of the villas. An upper pool extends right off the main room, and lower larger pool for a little more space and sunbathing. The pools are private which is just what is needed for a relaxing couples holiday on Zanzibar.''Each room also comes with a personal valet. Someone who is there to answer any request you may have. \xa0Would you like coffee? No problem! Do you need your laundry done? Sure thing! No request is too small for the wonderful staff at''Kilindi Zanzibar''. They go out of their way to make sure your Zanzibar holiday is perfect on all accounts.''Check Prices Now!''The Food Experience''Speaking of personal butlers, your Kilindi butler is also there to help you with all food decisions. It’s safe to say that after the first day he or she will completely remember what you like and prefer and will cater to all your dietary requests.''The food at Kilindi is some of the best that we’ve had in all of Africa. Each breakfast, lunch, and dinner has a plethora of seafood, meat, and vegetarian\xa0dishes sure to satisfy any appetite.''We chose to start each day off with breakfast in our room that consisted of things like a lobster and egg tower, mango smoothies, and stuffed banana crepes. Lunch can be had in your room, at the beach, or at the main lobby overlooking the pool and beach. Lunch is always a blend of healthy lightweight options from the land and nearby sea.''We met with the head chef at our first dinner at Kilindi Zanzibar. He introduced himself and told us all about how Kilindi will buy all their seafood day of from the local Zanzibari fishermen. “''A true resort should give back to the local people'',” he told us. Something that we find to be so true at the African lodges we stay at. From then on out we ordered as much seafood as we could handle, knowing that the lobster, prawns, and fish were all fresh from the surrounding sea.''Check Prices Now!''The Surroundings''Kilindi Zanzibar is located on the northwest coast of Zanzibar island right near Kendwa beach. The cove that Kilindi overlooks is almost private, with the only people around being the local Zanzibari fishermen and villagers. The view from the massive infinity pool at Kilindi offers the most breathtaking views of the clear blue and turquoise waters and is the perfect spot to enjoy a Zanzibar honeymoon from. It’s hard to pick between the views at the pool or the white sand\xa0beach at Kilindi. We were also informed that the beach near Kilindi is so clean because they hire out the locals to do a monthly cleanup. Again, it’s this “give back” mentality that draws us into resorts like this.''It’s safe to say that Kilindi Zanzibar is a rare retreat reserved for those who want a truly special experience. We personally think it is the best hotel in Zanzibar for a honeymoon. The ambiance, seclusion, and attentive staff make this one of the''very top resorts to choose from on Zanzibar.''We can’t wait to return one day.''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Kilindi Zanzibar''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Book Online:''Kilindi Zanzibar is on Hotels.com!''Flights to Zanzibar:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''It’s always nice to have a book in hand while traveling.''We love Lonely Planet.''Wanna get a look at local Zanzibari life?''Check out one of our''favorite posts observing local life.''Thank you to the Elewana Collection for hosting us at Kilindi Zanzibar. As always all opinions expressed are our own.''Read Next''10 Fabulous Things to do in Zanzibar''A Dependable Serengeti Safari Packing Checklist''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''Kilindi Zanzibar: The Best Zanzibar Honeymoon Resort''was last modified:''April 18th, 2018''by''Natasha''After\xa0four months of driving from''Cape Town''to Dar Es Salaam, when we arrived on the island\xa0we set out to find the best hotels in\xa0Zanzibar. After all, the hotels\xa0and resorts of\xa0Zanzibar are designed\xa0for decompression\xa0after a long''safari in Tanzania''. It’s the perfect place to trade in your''safari attire''and binoculars for a bathing suit and a coconut water.''The island’s coastline is fringed by white sand beaches and the''turquoise\xa0waters of a tropical Indian Ocean''. Zanzibar is the perfect place to sit on the beach, drink some coconuts, and forget. However,''there is depth to the sunny island'', a history that dates\xa0back centuries and involves slaves, sultans, spices, war, and culture.''Determining the best hotels on the island was an easy feat. The best hotels in Zanzibar are The Residence Zanzibar, Park Hyatt Zanzibar, Emerson Spice, Kilindi Zanzibar, Essque Zalu, and Tulia Beach Resort.''Best Hotels In Zanzibar''The Residence Zanzibar''Guests don’t get a room at The Residence Zanzibar – instead they get a large villa. Each villa comes with a spacious\xa0bathroom with an indoor and outdoor shower, bathtub, and his and hers sinks. The bedroom in the villa features a king sized\xa0four poster bed that faces sliding glass doors that reveal a private patio.\xa0The highlight of the room lies on the patio, each villa comes with a beautiful glass tiled private pool. The pools at''The Residence Zanzibar''truly sparkle.''We found it difficult to depart from our villa; however, the centerpiece of the property has to be the\xa0main pool and restaurant. It was by all accounts the best pool we found on the island. The sparkling water of the massive infinity pool comes to a dramatic end with glass walls providing light and views out to the private beach.\xa0This is where we passed our time – poolside\xa0with a good book and waiting for a singing attendant to deliver us ice cream everyday.''The private beach\xa0near Kizimkazi is one of the most secluded\xa0on the island and''one of best beaches on Zanzibar''. The white sand beaches here are perfect for those wanting a private beach escape. We started to feel a little too relaxed, so we took\xa0to\xa0the water with the resorts paddle boards and some snorkel gear. We found plenty of activities on the resort to keep ourselves entertained between birding, biking, swimming, water sports, and billiards.''The whole feel of the hotel\xa0keeps in touch with the island. The main reception is a large open building with ottoman style archways and the scent of spices floating through\xa0the air. The restaurant serves up a mix of contemporary food and draws inspiration from the island’s history of spice. The Residence\xa0has a clear spot on the list of best hotels in Zanzibar.''The Residence Zanzibar Highlights for us:''The crystal clear\xa0pools, modern room and amenities, fast WiFi.''Check Prices Now!''Park Hyatt Zanzibar''The Park Hyatt Zanzibar is an exquisite\xa0hotel delivered in a way only capable of a''Park Hyatt Zanzibar''and is easily one of the top 10 hotels in Zanzibar.\xa0The hotel finds a perfect balance between the brands signature look and the former palace that the main building now occupies. The interiors of the hotel embody the atmosphere of Stone Town with features such as intricate chandeliers, archways, lanterns, trellises, carved wood, and crown molding.''The beds are heavenly, the\xa0robes are fresh, and a TV is literally built over the bathtub. The room’s private balconies are a splendid way to soak up\xa0afternoons sipping on\xa0espresso\xa0from the in-room Nespresso machine. The rooms at the Park Hyatt are the most comfortable on Zanzibar.''Despite our\xa0views of everyday beach life from our room, we made good use out of the pool, gym, and hotel library. The hotel pool is\xa0the perfect place to spend the day watching the lively Stone Town beach. When the evening time rolls around we have to recommend their happy hour where we picked up two bourbon cocktails at half price and made our American-selves happy.''If you tire of the hotel grounds the property is located in the center of Stone Town. Some of our favorite days were spent''wandering the streets of Stone Town''that has all the charms of Arabic medinas, but none of the hassle.''The Park Hyatt Highlights for us:''Park Hyatt brand, balcony, fitness center, beautiful room, fast WiFi, comfort, and location.''Check Prices Now!''Emerson Spice''Emerson Spice is a restored Merchant’s House turned boutique Zanzibar hotel in the center of Stone Town. The hotel\xa0has eleven rooms that are all individually\xa0decorated and named accordingly. Our room was\xa0Semele, a room too beautiful for her own good covered with pastel blue walls, stained windows, and ceiling to floor\xa0burgundy\xa0curtains.''The rooms are filled with antique furniture and rich textures. Small touches like locally produced soaps and towels, antique books and even air con are featured in each room. Passion\xa0has been poured into the''Emerson Spice''and it is obvious.''We felt as if we’d cast away in the days of old. Time slowed down and we soaked up the atmosphere of the''buzzing Stone Town streets''from our private balcony.''Food at the Emerson Spice is a special occasion. We dined in the newest addition to the Emerson Spice, their\xa0Secret Garden restaurant. The restaurant is hidden away in ruins neighboring Emerson Spice. Diners revel in the open air restaurant while the head chef prepares the majority of meals in a blaze of smoke on a charcoal\xa0grill.\xa0We couldn’t resist and went with their seafood platter a mix of fresh lobster, prawns, and barracuda – delicious.''Emerson Spice Highlights for us:''The abundance of charm and character, Secret Garden restaurant, and excellent location.''Check Prices Now!''Emerson on Hurumzi''Located a five-minute walk away from the Emerson Spice is her sister hotel, the Emerson on Hurumzi. The building was built in the 1870’a by Sir Tharia Topna, a powerful merchant in Zanzibar. Just\xa0like the Emerson Spice entering the hotel is akin\xa0to being transported back in time.''There was no end to Stone Town when we entered our room as the\xa0city drifts in through trellised walls from the balcony. Our room, North, features a\xa0roof top shower and bathtub that provided views of the cityscape. The beautiful antiques feel right at home in the room.''Dinner on the Rooftop Tea House was our most memorable in Zanzibar and should be experienced by all''who visit\xa0Stone Town.''Diners sit atop cushions and\xa0large Persian rugs on the hotel’s roof while a velvet roof dances in the wind. Evening cocktails begin at 18:00 and\xa0dinner is served at 19:00, make sure to book a spot in advance\xa0as the demand is high. The restaurant serves a blend Persian and Omani food in a tasting menu every night. If you’re lucky you can visit on an evening with live entertainment from one of the many talented bands in Zanzibar.''When morning rolled around we enjoyed a healthy and light breakfast on our rooms private balcony. The''Emerson on Hurumzi''and the Emerson Spice embody everything Zanzibar and when you lay your head down at night you don’t leave the island\xa0you remain in its heart.''Emerson on Hurumzi Highlights for us'': Rooftop Tea House dinner and entertainment, large and comfortable bathtubs, breakfast on the patio overlooking Stone Town.''Check Prices Now!''Wanna see more of Stone Town?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Tulia Zanzibar Unique Beach Resort''Pongwe is in running for not only the best beach on Zanzibar but one of the best in the world.\xa0Taking in this secluded\xa0white sand beach can be done with the\xa0Tulia Zanzibar Unique Beach Resort. In Swahili, Tulia means\xa0to relax and that is exactly how\xa0the intimate resort is designed. The 15 villas are spread across a lush garden and central pool bar.''Guests are greeted by a friendly staff and whisked away to rooms waiting with a bottle of wine, greeting card, and a bed of flowers. The rooms here are spacious, comfortable and modern. The large king bed sits on a platform and provides views out of the room to the garden or sea. The best part? Tulia advertises the fastest WiFi on the island. As travel bloggers, we can attest and confirm that the WiFi at Tulia was indeed the fastest, we have the stats!''Tulia is a Zanzibar hotel that is all inclusive with inspiring food and cocktails included in the price. We spent the morning on the\xa0stand-up paddle boards and kayaks. While our afternoons were spent sipping pina colodas around the unique hotel pool. Which, is also home to one of the only waterslides on the island. We could not resist acting like a pair of kids again and went for races down the slide.''Breakfast, lunch, and dinner at''Tulia Zanzibar Unique Beach Resort''have\xa0local and international chefs cooking up some delicious food from an ever-changing menu.\xa0After dinner, the pool\xa0bar is\xa0the perfect place to relax with a nightcap while staring at the Zanzibar night sky. Tulia hit all the marks for us and had the perfect blend of fun, relaxation, and intimacy.''Tulia Beach Resort Highlights for us:''Intimate feeling with attentive staff, fast WiFi, beautiful pool and beach, and of course the waterslides!''Check Prices Now!''Kilindi Zanzibar''The most exclusive of all the resorts on Zanzibar is without a doubt Kilindi Zanzibar. The resort is\xa0near Kendwa on the Northwestern part of the island and is one of the top Zanzibar hotels on the beach. Its\xa0large grounds give plenty of privacy to its 15 villas that pop up from a lush hillside. The white-washed domed villas\xa0feel like a sultan’s palace that should only be fit for a king or a pop celebrity. In fact, the resort was formerly the private residence of ABBA band member,''Benny Andersson.''Privacy is key at Kilindi and each villa has two private plunge pools, an open rainfall shower, and personal\xa0lounge area. The villas feel\xa0right at home on the island and are decorated\xa0with very few details. Guests will instead find small touches like seashells, a book, or a few pieces of furniture.\xa0 Each room\xa0comes with a\xa0valet to deliver meals, plan activities, collect\xa0laundry, and assist with whatever the guest may need while staying at the resort.''The infinity pool at''Kilindi Zanzibar''overlooks the most beautiful bay in Zanzibar, filled with dhows and turquoise water.''Guests at Kilindi are given complete freedom. Every breakfast, lunch, and dinner can\xa0be served at any time and anywhere.\xa0The food at\xa0Kilindi is superb and every\xa0course is cooked from the freshest ingredients, as the chef opts to grow and buy local.\xa0It is easily the best food on the island, but there is nothing pretentious about the atmosphere in which it is served.''We opted to always have breakfast from the comfort of our private lounge area, while lunch was spent around the pool, and dinner was spent in some of Kilindi’s secret hideaway spots. It may have taken some convincing for us to get dragged away from Kilindi. Kilindi may take the top accolade for the best hotels in Zanzibar, but it does come with the highest price tag on this list.''Kilindi Zanzibar highlights for us'': Privacy of villas, stunning and secluded beach, and the best food on the island.''Check Prices Now!''Essque Zalu Zanzibar''This Zanzibar hotel is not for the faint of heart, at\xa0Essque Zalu bigger is better. It is one of the largest resorts on Zanzibar, but the intimacy of Zanzibar has\xa0not been\xa0lost. Essque Zalu Zanzibar sits at the Northern end of Zanzibar, close by to Nungwi Beach.''The rooms are comfortable with large beds, patios, walk in closets, lounges, rainfall showers, and a desk. We spent some time reading a book from our patio in the beautiful gardens of the resort.''Guests can\xa0spend their days soaking up the sun by the massive\xa0pool at''Essque Zalu Zanzibar''. The location of the hotel on top of a small cliff may not present it access to the beach; however, what Essque Zalu lacks in beach it makes up for with a beautiful jetty. Yes, the longest jetty on Zanzibar resides here and is the perfect place to come and relax anytime of the day. It’s also one of the only parts of the island where you can catch both sunrise and sunset!''The hotel features two restaurants and we made a point to have dinner at both. The Jetty offer relaxed vibes and a grill. While Market Kitchen served up the better meals in a more polished atmosphere.\xa0The staff at both restaurants impressed us with their attentiveness, smiles, and welcoming attitude.''We also loved being able to get in a workout with the fitness center after eating too much of the delicious food on Zanzibar. The Essque rounds our list of the best hotels in Zanzibar making one drool-worthy list. If you asked us to pick one of the above it would be tough, so maybe just try them all like us!''Highlights of Essque Zalu Zanzibar:''The intimate and picturesque jetty, well-equipped fitness center, and extremely well cared for gardens and grounds.''Check Prices Now!''Plan Your Trip to Zanzibar, Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below''Flights to Zanzibar:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''It’s always nice to have a real live book on hand.''We like Lonely Planet!''Bonus Video!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''10 Fabulous Places to Visit in Zanzibar''The Best Zanzibar Beaches • Plus Zanzibar Beach Resort & Hotel Reviews''10 Things to Know Before You Travel to Zanzibar''We Sat at a Zanzibar Cafe and got a Different Glimpse into Life There''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''The Seven Best Hotels In Zanzibar to Stay At''was last modified:''February 21st, 2018''by''Natasha''It should be no surprise that having the best travel water bottle is important to us. We have''talked about how plastic is destroying our planet''many times on our site, and take notice when hotels make a push to reduce plastic water bottles and opt for water filtration systems instead.''However, we can not solely rely on businesses to make the shift to reducing plastic use, we as the consumer have to as well. That means carrying a great travel water bottle. Besides saving the environment from plastic\xa0waste, staying hydrated is''essential when traveling.''It’s easy to neglect your body when you’re on the road, but that doesn’t mean you need to forget something as basic as drinking plenty of fluids. If you haven’t read our''25 tips for all travelers''we suggest you do so now!''As with all things travel and in life there is no one size fits all bottle. Everyone moves around in different ways and has their own approach to travel. That means what might be the best water bottle for hopping around the globe for us, may be terrible for another traveler. One thing we are certain is that everyone and we mean everyone, should be carrying a water bottle with them to reduce plastic waste and stay hydrated. We have two things on us at all times that’s our water bottle and our''favorite travel camera''.''Why you should travel with a water bottle''Buying plastic bottled water unnecessarily is for tools. There are a plethora of reasons that you should be carrying a water bottle when you travel, but we’ll stick to a few key points.''Traveling with a water bottle saves you money.''Not buying plastic water bottles helps save our environment, whether you’re on the road or not.''Water aids in keeping your joint lubricated and your muscles moving smoothly.''Drinking plenty of fluids helps fight the jetlag.''It is proven to give you an energy boost and strengthen your immune system.''Best Travel Water Bottles''Kor Delta Water Bottle''This slick water bottle has one of the designs that makes us slap our heads and go duh! The bottle has a flip top that ensures there are no accidental spills when sitting in your backpack. We love that! I can’t tell you how many times we’ve pulled a wet phone, book, or headphones out of a backpack because of a loose water bottle top.''The bottle is also the most affordable item on this list. Making it an easy choice for those on a quick jaunt over to Europe or around the US. I also love the convenience of the handle on the top of the''Kor Delta''water bottle.''Check The Price Here!''Lifestraw Go''This is the original water bottle we started our travels off with. If you’ve been following our blog for a while there is no doubt you’ve seen it sneakily hidden away in countless photos or on the sides of our backpacks. We love the design of the water bottle and have been proponents of it on our site for a while now. The bottle can hold 850ml and filters the water through a filter straw. With two years of use, I have never been sick from bad water when using this water bottle. There are a few design flaws we’ve noticed the top of the bottle leaks when not directly upright and we would love it much better if the bottle wasn’t plastic.''The bottle can hold 850ml and filters the water through a filter straw. With two years of use, I have never been sick from bad water when using this water bottle. It’s the filter that makes us love the''Lifestraw Go''. When traveling it is common to come across some questionable water supplies. In the past travelers were forced to purchase bottled water, but with a filter its possible to fill up right from the sink or river still.''When traveling it is common to come across some questionable water supplies. In the past travelers were forced to purchase bottled water, but with a filter, it’s possible to fill up right from the sink or river still. There are some limitations on that, the filter doesn’t do a great job with sediment or heavy metals.''There are also a few design flaws we’ve noticed. The top of the bottle leaks when not directly upright and we would love it much more if the bottle wasn’t plastic. We still love it and consider it to be one of the best travel water bottle on the market.''Check The Price Here!''Grayl\xa0– Filtration Cup''I love the design of this water bottle! Like the''Lifestraw Go''this bottle also features a filter. However, the filter design is entirely different than the Lifestraw.''The design is sleek and innovative. The futuristic bottle filters water similar to a french press. It’s genius it allows for sediment to sit at the bottom and filters the water in one go. The result is a water bottle that has a wide mouth top and can filter our bacteria and heavy metals. It beats the Lifestraw go in every category for us, but the price.''It’s the perfect water bottle for those spending a significant amount of time in developing nations with questionable water supplies. We love filtered water bottles because they''save space in our daypacks''when we’re on a hike.''It’s the most expensive water bottle on this list, and it may make consumers think twice about purchasing. However, as advid travelers who’ve spent more than our fair share of time in developing nations the''Grayl Filtration Cup''is our choice for the best travel water bottle.''Check The Price Here!''Klean Kanteen''Carrying an insulated water bottle has its perks. The''Klean Kanteen water bottle''is a clear winner for us because of its ability to serve us a cup of warm coffee on the go. The dead simple design of the water bottle is great, there are no bells and whistles and nothing to go wrong or replace. They’re durable bottles with a reliable history of great customer satisfaction.''The bottle can keep drinks hot for six hours and cold for up to 24 hours. The bottle is lightweight so it won’t slow you down. It has a wide mouth that makes drinking, pouring, and filling up easy. I also like the all stainless steel design that is meant to last. The all metal construction ensures that this bottle won’t break and that makes it one of the best travel water bottles on\xa0the market.''Check The Price Here!''Vapur Eclipse''You don’t have to be a rocket scientist to figure out why the''Vapur Eclipse''makes a great travel water bottle. The bottle or bag has the ability to be rolled up and clipped together when not in use. The bag is great for those who love to pack light and only use a small''carry-on backpack.''It’s probably the most basic “bottle” on this list. However, with its minimal\xa0footprint, it’s an easy addition to our best water bottles for travel list.''Check The Price Here!''Read Next:''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''The Best Packable Down Jackets to Travel With''Camping in Iceland? Here are 25 Iceland Ring Road Trip Tips''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Best Travel Water Bottle To Carry On Your Next Trip''was last modified:''April 19th, 2018''by''Cameron''Want to know what the best beaches in Zanzibar are? We spent three weeks beach hopping, drinking coconuts, sunbathing, and searching for\xa0the perfect Zanzibar beaches. Surrounded by\xa0soft\xa0white sand, a compelling atmosphere, and crystal clear\xa0water on the island there is no shortage of ideal beaches on this Tanzanian island.''Some of the great Zanzibar beaches include Paje, Kendwa, Nungwi, Kizimkaze, Pongwe, and Stone Town with each being unique and mesmerizing in their own way. So before you go looking\xa0for the best beach on Zanzibar just remember that there really is no''bad''beach on Zanzibar.''The Best Zanzibar Beaches''Kendwa Beach, Zanzibar''About 3km away from Nungwi is Kendwa Beach. Kendwa beach is best known for its full moon parties at Kendwa Rocks making it one of the best Zanzibar beaches for young people. The full moon party is a drunken occasion usually on the Saturday\xa0closest to the full moon. If you’re not into partying don’t worry! The beach still boasts bright blue and turquoise colors with white sand beaches making it a solid contender for the best beach on\xa0Zanzibar.''While you may not be able to catch the sunrises here you will certainly be able to catch beautiful sunsets. There is also a village nearby that\xa0you can catch a\xa0glimpse into Zanzibari life.''My favorite Zanzibar Beach Resort near Kendwa?''Elewana’s Kilindi Resort. We stayed two wonderful nights at Kilindi and I have to say it is one of the nices places, most luxurious, and most expensive places to stay in all of Tanzania. The whole Zanzibar resort is\xa0influenced by Swedish and Zanzibari architecture. There are only 13 pavilions meaning the resort is secluded and romantic. Each pavilion comes with its own private butler so all are waited on hand and foot. If you are on a dream vacation or honeymoon and can afford Kilindi then a stay here is a must.''You can read our full review here.''Check Prices Now!''Nungwi Beach, Zanzibar''One of the best beaches in northern Zanzibar is Nungwi Beach. Nungwi is absolutely beautiful, but with beauty brings annoyance. Teens and touts scour these Zanzibar beaches with hopes to annoy tourists enough to buy their trinkets and tours. It took us 1.5 hours to get to Nungwi from Stone Town, which in a cab may cost as much as $60.''Popular things to do in Nungwi''is to visit the aquarium or take a sunset dhow ride.''My favorite Zanzibar beach resort place to stay in Nungwi?''Essque Zalu Zanzibar Resort. This is a grand mega resort on Zanzibar where bigger means better. From the pool to the reception, to even the jetty all is grand here. Essque Zalu is a great value and an affordable option to stay at on the island. It has has a fantastic fitness center, which you want to use after indulging in all the seafood!''Check Prices Now!''Paje Beach, Zanzibar''Paje is the backpacker spot on Zanzibar. A cool coffee shop, bars, cheap hostels, and tasty\xa0food can all be found in Paje making it one of the best areas to stay in Zanzibar. However, Paje is best known for its kitesurfing. Kiteboarders and beginners flock here to get catch some wind on this beautiful Zanzibar beach! Beginners can choose\xa0any number kitesurfing schools in Paje. \xa0Besides the kitesurfing, Paje is a great spot for laid back vacationers who want to experience soft sand and bright blue water. The women’s seaweed center, Jozani Forest, and the famous Rock restaurant are all close to Paje. My recommendation to get around here is to rent a scooter for $25 a day and take to the Zanzibari streets.''My favorite place to stay in Paje?''Hakuna Majiwe Beach Resort. This is a quaint beach resort that is one of the more affordable options on this list. Hakuna Majiwe is located right on the beach and only steps away from the ocean. It’s not lavish and much more basic than others, but with that it has charm and a feeling that you are truly stranded away on an African beach. It’s was one of my favorite Zanzibar beach resorts!''Check Prices Now!''Stone Town Beach, Zanzibar''The beach surrounding Stone Town may not be the best beach in Zanzibar; however, if you have a few days on the island then Stone Town is a must.\xa0The beach in Stone Town is the liveliest for locals on the island and some may argue it’s one of the best swimming beaches in Zanzibar. On weekends expect the crowds to swell and the Zanzibari people to take part in swimming, football games, and gymnastic show downs. This beach is also a great spot to watch the dhows sail off into\xa0the setting sun.''Stone Town also has a lot to offer, with\xa0restaurants, shops, and historical sites. Even though the beach isn’t the most relaxing or prettiest of the bunch it is a great place to get more of a local feeling on Zanzibar rather than being hidden away in a tourist point. To make things better the Park Hyatt Zanzibar, located right on the beach is one of the''best hotels on the island.''My favorite place to stay in Stone Town?''The Park Hyatt Zanzibar. The Park Hyatt Zanzibar falls in line with the signature Park Hyatt brand. Luxury and elegant with all the amenities you need on vacation. This Zanzibar beach resort had a pool overlooking the ocean, a delicious breakfast, and an extremely comfortable room complete with the fastest internet we found on the island. If you are in need of getting work done or doing business travel you won’t be disappointed by the Park Hyatt Zanzibar.''Check Prices Now!''Pongwe Beach, Zanzibar''Pongwe beach is perhaps my favorite on all of Zanzibar. The water is the perfect temperature. It is also a delightful array of blues, greens, and turquoise, and the area is relatively\xa0quiet on the eastern side of the island. We spent a few days here away from the crowds and soaking in the sun in complete relaxation and tranquility. There aren’t many people to bother you here as it is one of the lesser known beaches on the island. With that tranquility also comes the problem of food and locals towns around the area – there aren’t many. So you’ll likely be reliant on your Zanzibar hotel for food and entertainment once you arrive. Unless you rent a moped to get around the island!''My favorite Zanzibar beach hotel in Pongwe?''Tulia Unique Zanzibar Beach Resort. This is a great beach resort for couples and families alike. There is a swim-up bar with all-inclusive delicious cocktails and food service. While you’re munging away on french fries and mojitos the kiddies can go play on the waterslides. The whole resort overlooks the beautiful Pongwe beach. They have kayaks, stand up paddle boards, and snorkeling gear for you when you decide to brave the ocean.''Check Prices Now!''Kizimkaze Beach, Zanzibar''Kizimkaze is a small fishing village on the southern part of the island. The\xa0big thing to do around here is a dolphin tour. However, they are''controversial and unethical''due to the mass tourism inflicted on the dolphins and I wouldn’t recommend them.''Instead of doing an unethical dolphin tour here we spent a few days chilling out on the\xa0quiet beaches. There are a few small places to eat in the town, but out of all the Zanzibar beaches on this list Kizimkaze is probably the least frequented. The highest tides in Zanzibar can also be found here making it one of the best areas for swimming on the island.''My favorite Zanzibar beach resort in Kizimkaze?''The Residence Zanzibar. A grand resort with the most beautiful and clean pool I have ever seen. And that’s just the main pool! Every single villa here has a private pool along with a living quarter, bedroom, and outdoor shower.''Check Prices Now!''Good things to know when traveling around Zanzibar and enjoying the beaches''The main way to get around is a taxi. Although this is also the most expensive option as most taxi drivers will be stationed in Stone Town and have to make way to and from there. It is not custom to tip your taxi driver in Tanzania, but is a always a nice gesture.''The other option is to take local buses, or “dalla dallas.” Although they will be difficult to coordinate as\xa0tourist and you may waste a lot of your precious time trying to navigate them.''The only ATM’s are in Stone Town. Make sure you have enough cash to get you through your trip or you may be making a trip back to the capital.''The ferry to Zanzibar can book up very quickly. We got stuck in Dar Es Salaam an extra night because we didn’t book our ferry tickets well enough in advance.''Zanzibar is a predominately Muslim island, so take note of that when choosing your wardrobe. Bikinis and coverups are okay at your resort or hotel, but cover up your skin when walking around towns and villages.''Plan Your Trip to these Zanzibar Beaches''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''For ideas on what to bring to beach:''Read our ultimate beach packing list.''Accommodation in Zanzibar:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''Check out our list:''Of the best hotels on Zanzibar''Flights to Zanzibar:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Bonus! Take a tour of these Zanzibar beaches with us''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read More:''10 Fabulous Places to Visit in Zanzibar''The Seven Best Hotels In Zanzibar to Stay At''10 Things to Know Before You Travel to Zanzibar''We Sat at a Zanzibar Cafe and got a Different Glimpse into Life There''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Best Zanzibar Beaches • Plus Zanzibar Beach Resort & Hotel Reviews''was last modified:''January 9th, 2018''by''Natasha''Etosha National Park''Etosha National Park is without a doubt one of the best value safaris in Southern Africa. The park offers some of the best game viewing in Southern Africa. However, it does come at a price as barren Etosha is far from the most beautiful national park. Despite this, the Etosha National Park is considered one of the''best places to go on Safari in Southern Africa''and for good reason.''The lack of water in the area is also its saving grace as animals are concentrated at watering holes.\xa0The quality of roads, lack of huge crowds, and general ease of traveling Namibia are big pluses as well.''With a small selection of lodges, Etosha never gets too\xa0crowded. Even with our best animal sighting we only saw three other cars, and that was a lion kill with hyenas, jackals, and vultures circling around waiting to get some dinner. In neighboring''South Africa and in Kruger''there could be 50 cars.''Etosha National Park Fees''All of the parks in Namibia have the same pricing structure. The parks are also the cheapest we found in all of Africa for foreigners and are fairly well maintained. All park fees are payable at the gate at\xa0time of entrance. Park fees\xa0are valid for 24 hours.''Foreign Adults: N$80 Per Day''SADC\xa0Adults: N$60 Per Day''Resident Adults: N$30 Per Day''Children Under 16: Free Of Charge''Private Vehicle: N$10 Per Day''NWR''regulates all national parks in Namibia.''Etosha National Park Gate Times''Opening times for the park vary based on the sunrise and sunset. It is a safe assumption to plan on a half hour before sunset or sunrise for both entering and exiting.''When entering the park all gates have the exact opening and closing times displayed. Of course, asking when entering certainly won’t hurt. Exiting out of National Parks will\xa0generally resuls in some heavy fines and a strong talking to by the rangers.''Etosha National Park Gates''There are four entrance gates to Etosha. The two main gates to the park are Anderson’s Gate and Von Lindequest Gate. However, there are four gates visitors can enter into Etosha National Park.''Here are the four gates:''Anderson Gate''–''Southern Gate''– This is the main entrance into Etosha and there are a number of safari camps near the entrance for those not looking to stay in the park. The C38 a good paved road leads to the gate.''Von Lindequest \xa0Gate''–''Eastern Gate''– This is the second largest gate to Etosha connected by a main road (the B1).''Galton Gate''–''Western Gate''-This is the most remote entrance to the park and is great for those traveling from Damaraland or the Skeleton Coast.''King Nehale Lya Mpingana Gate –''Northern Gate''– Not far from the main town of\xa0Ondangwa.''Impala Waiting For Hyena To Finish His Bath''The Landscape''The word Etosha is taken from the indigenous language of Ovambo means''great white place,''referring the salt pan that dominates the park. Due to alkalinity and aridness of the pan almost no plants grow here, aside from a few grasses and trees.''The majority of landscape in the national park is Savannah Woodland. Mopane is the main tree and it is estimated that it makes up 80% of the forested area in Etosha. Other trees that can be found are the acacia and tamboti.''The salt pan is the largest in Africa and covers nearly a quarter of the total park size. At 4,800km² of land the pan is even visible from space.''The Wildlife''The park has a large population of wildlife and has around 114 different mammals that visitors have a chance to spot on their safari. It is also home to four of the''big five animals'', only excluding the African Buffalo.''Water is scarce in the park. However, there are a large number of water holes both natural and manmade that provide water for the wildlife. These concentrated sources of water create great game density as animals all come to the sources of water.''The water holes bring in large herds of elephant, springbok, oryx, zebra, eland, kudu, and even lonely black rhinos. Smaller wildlife that can be found around Etosha include jackals, honey badgers, mongoose, and the bat-eared\xa0fox.''Transportation in Etosha''The road network in Etosha is a series of graded gravel roads. The network in Etosha does a good job at connecting to the main waterholes in the park and can even be driven with a sedan, although that is not advised.''There are two recommended ways to experience Etosha. The most common is a game drive provided by a lodge, safari operator, or the parks department from one of their many camps in the park. This is the best option for most. Packaged game drives come with a knowledgeable guide who is well connected to the bush network and usually shares information with other guides on the ground. When one guide\xa0spots a lion kill he\xa0can then radio or call his buddies so they can take their guests to the sighting as well.''The next option is to\xa0self-drive in a high suspension vehicle. Given the prevalence and popularity of''road trips in Namibia''a self-drive is a great option. The roads are well marked, easy to navigate, and well maintained making Etosha one of the easiest parks in Africa to overland yourself.''The Best Water Holes In Etosha''This can vary a lot depending on the season, time of day, and even the year. Remember, the wild animals are wild, so therefore unpredictable.''Okaukuejo''is always a hit with visitors with its proximity to the rest camp. The watering hole is lit by floodlights throughout the night which provides visitors a chance to watch nocturnal animals come for a drink of water. Some of Africa’s most famous scenes have unfurled here including lion, elephants, hyenas, and rhinos squaring off as they compete for water. Other great viewing success can be had at''Homob, Kelin Namutoni, Okundeka, Chudop, and Rietfontein.''One of the best ways to view wildlife in Etosha is to simply sit at a watering hole and wait patiently. Due to the scarcity of water the animals will end up coming to drink.''The Best Time To Visit Etosha National Park''The best time to visit Etosha is in the dry season. The temperatures are cooler and the animals are more densely populated. This allows for the best wildlife viewing.''The dry season is from May to October and is winter in Namibia. Popular camps and lodges are often fully booked up during this time, so book in advance or go with a tour operator who already has spots on hold.''Summer (or the rainy season) can be a scorcher. When we were there in November temperatures were 40C+ and they average around 35C. However, once the rains reach the pan and the park everything is transformed to green. A dry dusty environment turns lush and bountiful. The pan can also gather a small amount of water and turn into a shimmering lake that attracts wetland birds including flamingos. It is estimated that almost one million flamingos can arrive in Etosha in order to breed in the pan.''When packing for the park it’s a good idea to have a nice''mix of safari clothes''. The temperature can vary greatly going from freezing cold in the morning to scorching hot in the afternoon and then back down at night.''Etosha National Park Accommodation''There is a wide, but limited range of accommodation around Etosha National Park. There are a number of high end lodges with private concessions outside of the park. We found many great accommodation options in the south near the Anderson Gate and to the East\xa0at the Von Lindequest Gate.''We stayed at Gondwana’s Etosha Safari Camp and Lodge.''We had a fantastic time at both lodges\xa0in Northern Namibia''and find them to be a great value, plus they have some awesome food!''Gondwana Etosha Safari Camp''Etosha National Park Camping''There is a nice selection of camps to explore Etosha National Park. The selection may not be as vast''The Kruger in South Africa'', however, the main camps within the park are all regulated by the parks department.''They have pools, good facilities, watering holes for night viewing, and okay restaurants. We were a little disappointed by the parks department facilities, but they’re up to par for anyone looking for a more budget-friendly option, and wanting to stay in the park.''We can recommend three camps outside of Etosha. The first being Gondwana Collection’s Etosha Safari Camp that is located to the south near the Anderson Gate. The second being Onguma’s Tamboti Luxury Campsite which still ranks as the best campsite we’ve stayed in all of Africa. The third is\xa0Hobias Campsite in Damaraland to the west of the park.''Etosha National Park Map''I’ve collected this map of Etosha from the''NWR site''that should help put the park into perspective. We always like to pick up a map at the gates of the national parks upon arrival.''Tours To Etosha National Park''With Namibia’s growing popularity many travelers are making it their first trip to Africa. While the country is easy enough to navigate it is a vast desert country with gravel roads and sometimes limited facilities. Tours around Namibia and to Etosha National Park are super easy to plan and book.''Tours to Etosha and Namibia also come in at all price points''. You have budget overland tours and budget safaris that will drive guests around, provide meals, book campsites, and provide a guide.''Personally, we love to do stuff on our own and found Namibia to be the easiest country to travel in Southern Africa''outside of South Africa''. It is, as one local told us, “''Africa light''.”''We think Tour Radar is a great way to compare and book tours anywhere in the world.''You can explore some tours that include Etosha National Park in their itinerary here''.''Essential Items To Bring To Etosha''There are a few things that one should pack for a trip to Etosha.''Sun hat'':\xa0The sun in Africa is no joke and its especially true in Namibia. We took sun protection lightly when we first arrived and payed the price with some serious sunburns.''Sunblock'': is also great. We take a joint approach to sun protection with sunblock and a hat.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''Malaria Around Etosha''Personally, and a lot of Africans will back us up on this, people take malaria a little too drastically sometimes. Etosha is mostly a desert environment and dominated by a salt pan. We did not take antimalarials when around Etosha, but if you are a worrier we would recommend putting your mind at ease and taking doxycycline.''That being said at the onset of the rainy season mosquitos may be present. The best defense to malaria is to simply not get bitten. That means wearing''insect repellant''and long sleeves at night when the mosquitos carrying malaria can bite.''Read More:''A Complete Etosha National Park Safari Guide''was last modified:''July 24th, 2017''by''Cameron''A safari in the Serengeti is unlike any other''wildlife experience on earth''. When you come to''Tanzania''to see some of Africa’s best animals\xa0you want to make sure you dress the part. After all, I doubt anyone wants to experience the wildebeest migration wearing a winter coat or sunburnt because they forgot the perfect''safari hat''.''That means you should grab\xa0everything you can from this\xa0Serengeti safari packing checklist. This\xa0will help with everything from clothes, to electronics, the''perfect safari camera'', and even''safari boots''. So, get ready to dig in and be on the lookout for''the big five''and more!''Serengeti Safari Packing List''The Essentials''The Shorts'': Depending on the season it can get scorching hot in the Serengeti. Make sure you don’t get caught in a\xa0safari vehicle\xa0with no escape from the heat. I have a great pair of''convertible pants like these''for when I go through hot or cold flashes. They are perfect\xa0for ever changing climates. However, I have to admit that they are not for the fashion models. Meaning no – they aren’t very stylish at all.''If you’re craving some style while on safari in the Serengeti a good pair of light,''breathable shorts''work just fine.''The Pants:''I have the''prAna Haley pants''and get complimented on them all the time. They are lightweight, dry fast, roll up into capris and fit my bum quite nicely. I would suggest opting for neutral colors while on safari so that they don’t distract the animals. The goal is to blend in while on safari.''The Shirt:''Lightweight and comfortable shirts are key while on safari. You will most likely be in a game viewer all day so you will want to be comfortable. I like these''Champion shirts on Amazon''since they are comfortable and dry fast.''Binoculars:''We’ve gotten caught on more than a''handful of Southern African safaris''without binoculars and let me tell you it’s not ideal. You’ll see loads of lion, elephant, giraffe, and maybe even leopards in the Serengeti (we saw all within our first hour), but chances are they won’t be''that''close. A good pair of binoculars obviously enhances your viewing pleasure. I like''these ones from Bushnell''since they are quality at an affordable price.''Shoes:''I’m a big fan of letting my feet breathe, and I have to be honest that while on safari in the Serengeti there won’t be a lot of walking. That’s why I prefer to wear my''rainbow flip flops''whenever I am on safari so that I can be comfortable in the car. When I have to walk around through rough terrain I prefer to wear my''Merrell Moab Ventilators''for good support and stability.''Electronics to bring to the Serengeti''Camera:''It’s hard to talk about safari electronics and not mention a camera. Any kind of decent wildlife shots while on safari will require a good camera. iPhones and iPads are great…but definitely not on close ups of animals on safari. I travel with my''Fujifilm X-T10''with a''200 mm telephoto lens''. No, I’m not a wildlife photographer, but I do manage to get close up shots of the most amazing lions and elephants still!''Phone:''I don’t know if this is a good or bad thing, but I was surprised to find a 3G connection in pockets of the Serengeti park. If you must stay connected to email or Instagram''(follow us!)''while on safari make sure to bring your phone! Most of the lodges have WiFi connection as well.''Adaptor:''Tanzania uses the British plug, or the''Type G Adaptor''. I recommend getting a few off Amazon and checking them off your Serengeti safari packing checklist before getting to Africa as they will be much more affordable and won’t leave you scurrying for a power adaptor at the airport.''Head Torch'':''A head torch is essential in Africa'', and the Serengeti is no exception. It gets dark under the beautiful African night sky and you don’t want to step on any creepy crawlers or run into a predator, do you?''Other Items to Consider for the Serengeti:''Lifestraw Go'': The water in Tanzania is not safe to drink. We use the''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''for those times when we don’t have access to safe drinking water. It filters out 99.9% of bacteria and lasts for 1000 Liters (aka a long time).''Insect repellant'': Please do yourself a favor and bring insect repellant with you to Africa. Mosquitos and other insects (''hello tsetse fly'') can get bad in the Serengeti and covering up and wearing mosquito repellant will make you far less annoyed. There is also that pesky illness called malaria caused by mosquito bites. That’s why adding this to any Serengeti safari packing list is a necessity.''Jacket'': It may be hot during the day, but as soon as that spectacular African sunset hits the nighttime air sets in. It may get cold at night and on early morning game drives. I travel with a''light fleece jacket''to keep me warm in this kind of weather.''Sports Bra'': The roads in the Serengeti are terrible at best – and yes I’m saying that after driving 10 months around Africa. Keep those ladies secure by picking up a''few good sports bras''before you go on safari.''Sunglasses:''When you’re on safari you spend a lot of time outside and that means plenty of sun exposure. We recommend protecting your eyes and remaining''stylish with a nice pair of Sunglasses.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0the Serengeti''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in the Serengeti:''We hear about many of the places we stay in Africa through word of mouth. However, we like to check''HotelsCombined.com''first''.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Look the Part:''Our favorite safari clothes to wear all over Africa.''We even have a''women’s version!''Book Your Tour'': There are a''plethora of tours you can book via TourRadar''. Check out some of the tours on offer.''Car Rental in Africa:''Although we decided to buy a car to get around Africa we rented a car with''Auto Europe''for our first two months on the continent.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read Next:''A Dependable Serengeti Safari Packing Checklist''was last modified:''November 10th, 2017''by''Natasha''Planning to travel to Zanzibar, Africa? Whether you are on an African honeymoon, finishing up your Kilimanjaro Trek, exploring the plains of the Serengeti ending it all with a long beach holiday one thing is for certain \xa0– Zanzibar Island is beautiful.''We spent three weeks on the island taking a beach break from our long overland trip that started in Cape Town. Here are a few things that are good to know before your Zanzibar vacation.''Things to Know Before You Travel to Zanzibar''Not all Beaches are created equal''All the different beaches on Zanzibar''offer something unique and special. We spent three weeks on the island hopping around the island in search of the most the beautiful beaches on Zanzibar. Yes, some are more beautiful than others, but every single one is\xa0wonderful.''After all, white sand beaches, turquoise water, and friendly locals almost guarantee all visitors will have a great time. For us, the most beautiful beaches on Zanzibar are\xa0Pongwe and Nungwi, while Paje was great for kite surfing, and Kizimkaze was perfect for seclusion.''Stone Town is the heart of the island''Zanzibar City is the capital of Zanzibar, and Stone Town is the beating heart of it. Whether flying in or taking the ferry almost all visitors will pass through Stone Town while visiting Zanzibar, Africa.''Your first reaction may be to high tail it out of the city and to the nearest beach resort, but I encourage you to explore for at least a couple days. We entered the Kasbah expecting Stone Town to remind us of the''medinas in Marrakech'', but thankfully this was not the case. Instead, we were immersed in East African history with touches of European, Arabic, Persian, and Indian\xa0cultures.''One of our favorite days in Stone Town would definitely have to be the''day we people watched in a Zanzibar Cafe.''Zanzibar is not exactly Zanzibar''“Zanzibar” is not\xa0the name of the largest island of the\xa0Zanzibar archipelago, but its name is actually Unguja. Unguja is surrounded by many other tiny islands but the only ones that most people have likely heard of is Zanzibar and Pemba. While Unguja, Pemba, and Mafia islands are the only islands inhabited by people.''The Zanzibar red colobus can only be found on Unguja''Don’t forget your book''When landing on Zanzibar expect to go through immigration again. Even if you have come from mainland Tanzania, and even though Zanzibar is now part of Tanzania it is still a requirement to get your passport checked before entering and leaving the island – so don’t forget that little important book! We also were told to bring our Yellow Fever cards with us, but never ended up being\xa0asked for them.''Book your ferry tickets in advance''The main ferry company to take from Dar Es Salaam to Zanzibar is''Azam Marine''. When purchasing your tickets there will be 300 men outside the terminal offering to sell you tickets – do not trust them – their tickets are fake or overpriced. Only purchase your ferry ticket from the indoor booth. There are no credit card machines so be prepared to pay in Tanzanian Shilling or USD.''We didn’t purchase ferry tickets before our journey and tried to buy them\xa0one hour before the ferry departed. No dice. Every seat was sold out and we had to wait until the morning. On our return ferry, we purchased tickets online, but it was only upon departure that we realized you still had to pay for them in person (cardless system). I would recommend buying your ferry tickets in advance when traveling to Zanzibar, especially in high season. Economy tickets cost $35 a person.''That spicy food''Zanzibar is sometimes referred to as “The Spice Island” for its abundance of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and cloves. The East African island was used as a spice plantation in the 18th century, and those roots still live. To see this in action tourists can''visit local spice farms''and get a feel for the different flavors of the island.''Don’t worry if you can’t get yourself on one of the spice farms\xa0you’ll be able to really taste Zanzibar in many of the dishes served around the island. We may or may not have gained a little weight from some delicious prawn curry dishes. I would also highly recommend making reservations at The Tea House in Stone Town for a spectacular night and delicious food.''Book your Spice Tour!''Show respect for the culture''Zanzibar is a\xa0semi-autonomous''part of Tanzania''that\xa0is a predominately Muslim, so it’s important to show your respect for the culture. Try not to wear short shorts or bikinis outside of resorts and beaches and don’t plan on eating much bacon. We could hear the daily call to prayers from Stone Town only (which I find soothing), but some people may want to bring earplugs for the early wake-up calls.''Watch out for the dhows''A dhow is a sailboat used in the Indian Ocean. We saw them all the time on the''Mozambican coast''and could spend hours watching them bring in goods\xa0and fish to shore.''With their thin hulls and large sails they are quite a sight to see. Luckily if you’re near the beach on Zanzibar you are almost guaranteed to see a dhow.''Or you can take a trip out with the locals and sail the warm Indian Ocean first hand. Make sure they have flippers and eye masks so that you can snorkel!''A Night At The Opera''Did you know that the lead singer of Queen was born in Zanzibar? That’s right – Freddy Mercury himself was born right in Stone Town in the 1940’s. Back then Zanzibar was a British Protectorate and Mercury’s family had moved to Zanzibar for his fathers’ job. Now, you can see right where Freddy Mercury lived in the center of Stone Town.''A Dark Past''Zanzibar was critical to the Indian Ocean slave trade. It served as the\xa0gateway for slaves entering and exiting East Africa and was one of the largest slave ports in the region.''Many groups had a hand at the terrible trade too. Arabs were the main slave traders, while African kings and families would sometimes sell prisoners and Europeans used the slaves in their plantation. You can witness the horrific conditions slaves were subjected to\xa0at the''old slave market in Stone Town''or take a tour out to Prison Island.''Go on a Stone Town tour!''Hakuna Matata (Bonus!)''I know you’ve seen Lion King'', so I don’t have to explain what Hakuna Matata means. However, once you get to Tanzania “No worries” becomes the way of life on the island and the Zanzibaris will definitely let you know.''Plan Your Trip to Zanzibar, Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Check out our list:''Of the best hotels on Zanzibar''Flights to Zanzibar:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''If you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Bonus! Take a tour around Stone Town with us!''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Read Next:''The 10 Best Hiking Backpacks to Conquer Mountains in 2018''All The Best Travel Songs and Music in one Playlist''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''August 10, 2017''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''July 29, 2017''10 Things to Know Before You Travel to Zanzibar''was last modified:''February 11th, 2018''by''Natasha''We spent two weeks in the city, and never ran out of things to do in Essaouira. In fact, we kept extending our stay in the Moroccan coastal town. Read on to see our list of the best\xa0things to do in\xa0Essaouira.''An introduction to Essaouira''Essaouira is perched on a rocky outcrop with a medina that appears at any moment to be beaten back by the sea. Yet, after centuries of waves it stands defiantly. The city was meant to exist, and the web of winding narrow streets of white and blue have always been.''There is no shortage of things to do in Essaouira. With a history of contrasting influences from African, Arab, Spanish, French, Roman, and Berber it is distinctly its own. A laid-back hippy vibe permeates, a buzzing medina remains relevant to locals and tourists, while access to modern comforts are readily available.''Adding Essaouira to any Moroccan trip itinerary almost appears to be a necessity. While traveling we met both Moroccans and travelers who referred to the charms of the wind-swept city. So we hopped on the first bus out of Marrakesh to Essaouira.''That wind is a distinguishing characteristic of Essaouira, and it is nearly constant. The city is known as the “wind city of Africa,” and is famous for the numerous kite-surfers seen off the coast. It blows in cooler temperatures pushing away the Moroccan heat and sand keeping away the sun-chasers who instead head for the resorts of Agadir, giving Essaouira only more atmosphere.''Things to do in Essaouira''Visit The Medina\xa0in Essaouira''Essaouira has arguably one of the most attractive medinas in Morocco. It has been listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and rightfully so. The medina is also one of the easiest to navigate, unlike Fez or Marrakesh, there is not such certainty that you will get lost.''The medina is protected from the sea by the impressive Skala, a military defensive wall designed by a French architect in the mid 18th century. The streets are narrow and have beautiful details hidden away in them, much like the rest of Morocco. The city is also very manageable and not difficult to navigate, you do not run the risk of getting lost like the major cities.\xa0We found wandering around the streets to be one of our favorite things to do in Essaouira and spent countless hours doing so.''Countless shops played the local Gnawa music and the air is a mixture of hash, spices, aged buildings, and salt air creating a unique ambiance. Even the touts, who still exist, seem to have adopted the laid-back approach to things unlike the major cities of Marrakesh and Fez.''Watch the Seagulls fly\xa0in Essaouira''The seagulls are a constant sight in the city. It is hard to go anywhere and not see or hear the gulls screaming overhead. \xa0There are numerous places around the city for a great viewpoint.''We suggest the Skala, Le\xa0Simoun, and “The Port Tower.” Be warned that many birds overhead mean plenty of bird poop bombs being dropped on the unsuspecting, I took one right to the head.''Mine?''Check out the\xa0daily catch\xa0in Essaouira''This is definitely one of our favorite things to do in Essaouira. Wandering through the port is a must when visiting. On good weather days, the port is bustling and is anything, but a tourist attraction. The boats bring in large amounts of fresh fish available for purchase.''If you know how to pick a fresh fish you can even buy from the fisherman, and then walk over to the conveniently located cooks. There is also a square of fish stalls toting the local catch but beware on the windiest of days the boats don’t go out, so you could be getting several days old seafood.''We opted to dine at several good restaurants we trusted to only serve the days catch.''Listen To Music\xa0in Essaouira''Legend and lore talk of Jimi Hendrix visiting the town and receiving some sort of inspiration. It’s pretty much all myth. However, Essaouira is the center for Gnawa music. Gnawa music is a trance, mystical like music. It can be heard throughout the city being played from boom-boxes, to live bands.''The style of music has influenced all sorts of popular music, and a number of famous musicians have collaborated with Gnawa musicians such as Jimmy Page, and Brian Jones. The genre still influences popular music to this day; check out a modern artist of Gnawa below.''Flights to Morocco:''Book your flights and accommodation securely this''holidays 2017.''Scour The Souks in Essaouira''The souks of Essaouira are much smaller in comparison to the mazes you can find in other tourist hubs but offer almost all of the same merchandise.''The shop-keeps have adapted the attitude of the city and are nowhere near as aggressive as the rest of Morocco. It makes a good entry point for novice bargainers.''Learn To Kite Surf in Essaouira''This may be only for the truly adventurous, but if you ever been thinking about picking up Kiteboarding Essaouira might be the place. It is ideal for kiteboarding with great wind conditions, a long beach, and a relatively calm bay. At the end of the beach, various touts and vendors offer rides on boats, ATVs, horses, and even camels.''Where to Eat in Essaouira''One of Essaouira’s strongest draws is its offering of food. We spent much of our time in Essaouira sampling all that the city had to offer. We had delicious seafood, tasty falafel, and even Italian. Here are some of the places we recommend.''Triskala Cafe'': Our first meal out in Essaouira and it was a great surprise. They have a menu that changes daily depending on what is fresh and available and almost always have a great vegetarian option. Wonderful food. The restaurant itself is nestled down on the bottom floor of a building. Movie posters are everywhere, as well as old vinyl albums, and eclectic decor. They have a couple lofted tables where you can lounge on comfy cushions during your meal, perfect spot to kick back and enjoy the vibe of the city.''Gusto Italia'': Sadly, we were not able to try Gusto Italia, because they were closed for winter during our visit, but the reviews are consistently great. So, we’ll go with what they say.''Vagues Bleues'': Very small restaurant with only a handful of small tables and run by local man. The food is delicious, though! Perfect place for lunch, and cheap. 45dh gets you a few vegetable appetizers, two small juices, and an entree.''Loft'': Great food! We had delicious seafood here and would recommend the same. It has a nice hip decor, good music, and a good setting for an evening dinner.''La Fromagerie'': We did not visit here, but have heard wonderful things about it. All homemade cheeses made from the owner’s livestock on site, fresh would be a good description. \xa0Please note that a taxi is required to visit La Fromagerie, but if you contact the owner at lafromagerie.essaouira@gmail.com. and he can help you arrange a taxi.''Le Simoun'':''Le Simoun offers some of the best views of the harbor. It’s five stories high and has windows looking out over the fortified walls. Also, check out the toilet ;).''How\xa0to get to Essaouira''Getting to Essaouira is super easy from Marrakesh or Agadir. Six buses run daily from Marrakesh, the cost is 70dh one way. We recommend going with Supratours, the state-run company. Their office is adjacent to the train station and any taxi driver will know Supratours. The bus is three hours long and runs at 8:30, 9:00 (comfort bus 100dh), 10:30, 14:30, 17:00, and 19:00. Supratour''website here''.''Essaouira is one of the places where we felt at home in a foreign country. Where have you found your home away from home?''You May Also Like''Things to Do in Essaouira: A Beach Holiday in Morocco''was last modified:''May 31st, 2017''by''Cameron''Deciding on the best place to go on safari can be a difficult decision. I remember when we first landed in Africa and we just simply went to what we thought was the closest national park to Johannesburg.''That happened to be''Kruger National Park'', and self-driving it ended up being one of the greatest decisions we made in Africa. We saw a plethora of wildlife on a self-drive safari and we had no idea what we were doing.''Now, we’ve been to every major park in Southern Africa and have countless stories of spotting African wildlife in their natural home. So where is the best place to go on a safari in Southern Africa?''The Best Place To Go On Safari in Southern Africa''The Kruger, South Africa''If we’re talking about the best place to go on safari in Southern Africa we have to start off with the beast,''Kruger National Park''. This park is the Disney World of national parks in Africa. It’s the size of Israel and so famous for safari it’s only referred to as “''The Kruger'',” not Kruger National Park. It is unparalleled to any other National Park in the world and is known for its mind blowing game density. With\xa0well-managed rest camps offering guests everything they could need, and a vast network of well-maintained roads the park is readily accessible. If you’re looking for a safari you can plan and drive yourself look no further than Kruger National Park.\xa0Located in South Africa there is plenty more to see''outside of the National Parks.''The only downside is the sheer draw of tourists The Kruger brings in as things can get a bit crowded at times. However, the surrounding private game reserves are home to some decadent lodges with all the game and none of the crowds.''Book a safari here!''Our backyard at our lodge''Cheetahs in Kruger National Park''Yellow Billed Hornbill in Kruger National Park''Etosha National Park, Namibia''Etosha National Park''without a doubt is the best value safari on this list. The park offers some of the best game viewing in Southern Africa. However, it does come at a price as Etosha is the least attractive of all the National Parks on this list and is dominated by a barren salt pan.''The lack of water in the area is also it’s saving grace as animals are concentrated at watering holes making them easier to spot.\xa0The quality of roads, lack of huge crowds, and''general ease of a Namibian road trip''are also big pluses and why adding it to the list of best places\xa0to safari in Southern Africa is an easy decision.''National parks in Namibia are regulated by''NWR''at the time of publishing,\xa0entry to the park costs only N$80 ($6). There aren’t a plethora of lodges for Etosha so that means the park never gets super crowded. Even with our best animal sighting we only saw three other cars, and that was a lion kill with hyenas, jackals, and vultures circling around waiting to get some dinner. If you saw the same thing in Kruger there would be about 50 cars.\xa0It’s little wonder why we consider this one of the best places to go on safari in Southern Africa.''Lion hiding from the Namibian heat in Etosha National Park''Zebra Crossing Road In Etosha National Park''A White Rhino in Etosha National Park''Impala Waiting For Hyena To Finish His Bath''Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe''Zimbabwe at one point was THE destination to go on safari. While that may no longer be the case due to''recent political struggles''that does not mean the land or wildlife have gone anywhere.''Hwange National Park is Zimbabwe’s largest park''and roughly half the size of Belgium.''After decades and decades of management, Hwange is still one of the best places to go on safari. It’s seen its ups and downs, but the game density is still one of the highest in Southern Africa. So, bring your''favorite camera for safari''and prepare for some awesome sightings.''The park itself faces a water scarcity issue, but due to the constant work of conservation 60 watering holes throughout the park provide the animals year round water. Hwange is also home to one of Africa’s largest elephant populations. They’re also known for a healthy lion population, that was once home to''Cecil the lion''.''Book a Zimbabwe safari here!''Chobe National Park, Botswana''Hear the calls of fish eagles every morning and watch massive crocodiles slip away into the depth of the Chobe River. The Chobe is famous for its massive elephant population, that is by some accounts the largest in Africa. The park occupies a large swath of Northern''Botswana''ending at the Chobe River. We experienced the park in two unique ways, a''houseboat that floats along the river''and a''luxury lodge with stilted villas''.''There are a plethora of lodges along the river offering safari goers a chance to take safaris from the river. Visitors are given a chance to see Africa’s most elusive predator the wild dog and a host of other predators. There are only so many places left in Africa where the wild still reigns supreme.''Book a safari!''A herd of 200 buffalo on the Chobe River floodplain''The Chobe River is filled with Hippos''In the dry season all the animals come to the Chobe river for a drink''Resident bird life flourishes in the flood plains''Okavango Delta, Botswana''You’ll have a hard time comparing anything to what may be the top destination for a safari in all of Africa. The Okavango Delta stretches across Northwestern Botswana in a mix\xa0of land, marsh, water, and sand. Landscapes in the delta change in feet, not hundreds of miles.''The Okavango Delta is likely one of the most inaccessible places in Southern Africa, and arguably the most expensive. Botswana has opted for the high-cost low impact model of tourism and it has created an environment of five-star lodges with very few visitors. Which, creates for once in a lifetime safaris for those lucky enough to afford a safari in the delta.''Book your safari here!''A rare treat, a herony home to hundreds of birds''Migratory kites from Europe''Stunning sunset in the wild''South Luangwa National Park, Zambia''South Luangwa National Park''is famous for bush walks and leopards which are an enticing combo for those looking to get up close and personal with some of Africa’s most dangerous game. Tracking African buffalo, lions, or elephants is an exciting experience that connects you to the bush.''The park is home to all manner of landscapes\xa0allowing for a large variety of game to call South Luangwa home. There is also a healthy dose of lodges that are accessible on the southern border of the park along the Luangwa River. There is something here for every budget.''If you’re going to go on bush walks in the park we can’t recommend getting a good pair of''boots for your safari''enough!''Central Kalahari, Botswana''The red sands of the Kalahari make for a visual spectacle. The monstrous swath of earth that is the''Kalahari swallows''you whole. Sunsets here take on a whole new perception as the whole sky lights on fire.\xa0Rust-colored sand stains the earth and green vegetation dots the horizon.''However, come midday temperatures reach up to 50C and the harsh sun scorches the sand. Do yourself a favor and get a''safari hat''to combat the heat. The red sandstorms that originate in the Kalahari reach up into the earth’s atmosphere and can\xa0affect global weather patterns.''Despite all of this, many desert-adapted animals flourish in the Kalahari. You can spot lions, ostriches, meerkats, cheetahs, oryx, zebra, and even desert adapted giraffe. It a safari experience that is unlike any other in Africa. We were lucky enough to take in the Kalahari from both''Namibia''and''Botswana''.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Look the part:''Here is our guide to choosing the''best safari clothes''for your adventure.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. I would recommend picking up a''good travel water bottle''for your adventures. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: The Ultimate Guide''A Lower Zambezi National Park Guide: Don’t Arrive to Zambia Without It''A Kafue National Park Guide: Zambia’s Forgotten Park''All You Need to Know About the Masai Mara National Reserve''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Best Place To Go On Safari In Southern Africa''was last modified:''April 8th, 2018''by''Cameron''We were\xa0sitting\xa0in a small''Zanzibar''cafe in Stone Town off the coast of Tanzania. Stone Town is a city with a long history of trading in spices and slaves it brought great wealth to the city, but after the trade stopped everything appeared to freeze in time.''We wandered around the hot streets of Stone Town until we started to make us crave something cold. We ventured into the''Zanzibar Coffee House,''which was humming with activity and had one table left.\xa0We were relegated to the table next to the door – a seat that is usually the most undesirable in a restaurant due to the noise and heat that lingers its way in from the outside world. However, it took us about five minutes to realize that we had gotten the best seat in the cafe.''We watched life pass by in Stone Town. It made me wonder about their lives and where they were headed. Were they having a good or a bad day? Were they sad? Or happy?\xa0 Instead of pondering in the small cafe, I reached for''my travel camera''. I figured I would live their lives for that fleeting moment. We sat in the Zanzibar cafe and watched the world pass by. I loved every image, so I felt I had to share with you.''A day in a Zanzibar cafe''Do you ever sit back and people watch? I think today was one of my favorite days in Zanzibar as I watched daily life unfold from a different perspective (okay you may have seen us in a couple shots too). The people I saw all had something unique about them, and I love Zanzibar for that. Even though the island is considered Tanzania, it really is like its own separate country with a different vibe and culture. The people of Zanzibar are friendly, welcoming, and never stop saying “Hakuna Matata.”''If you’re ever in Zanzibar a visit to this little Zanzibar cafe is a must. The Zanzibar Coffee House roasts all of its own coffee and is located right in the heart of Stone Town (next to Emerson Spice). Their food is fresh and delicious and this is where we found the very best lattes and cappuccinos on the island!''Read Next:''We Sat at a Zanzibar Cafe and got a Different Glimpse into Life There''was last modified:''November 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''It’s hard to nail down a Southern Africa bucket list. Between Namibia, South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and Zambia there are so many must do things. Visitors can choose from wildlife safaris in the bush to diving with''whale sharks in Mozambique''. There is just so much to do and see in the massive area. It can feel a bit daunting when you first start coming up with your Southern Africa bucket list.''This isn’t some generic list of places someone’s pulled off of Google with creative commons images. We’ve been there, done it, and checked it off our personal list. From that list, we’ve pulled out the highlights of our Southern Africa bucket list adventures.''The Southern Africa Bucket List''Take A Safari in Kruger National Park''Kruger National Park is the perfect park for a first-time safari. It’s not the first time “The Kruger” has already made a few bucket list on our site and it won’t be the last time we write about this legendary park in Southern Africa.''The roads are paved, the prices are affordable, the park is easily accessible from Hoedspruit, and there is even a freaking''Mugg & Bean coffee shop''in the park. It’s an easy park to self-drive to\xa0get a feel for safari life and it has plenty to offer for those looking to dig a little deeper.''Plus Kruger is home to''the big five (elephant, buffalo, lion, leopard, and rhino)''. We saw four out of the five on our second day in South Africa! It’s an easy park to navigate and anyone can rent a car, book a lodge, and''put on the safari duds''for a great time on their own accord.''Book a Kruger Safari Here!''See Victoria Falls From Zimbabwe''Victoria Falls can be seen from both Zimbabwe and Zambia. However, the best place to get a great photo is from Zimbabwe. The “''Smoke that Thunders”''is in full effect in Zimbabwe, meaning you’ll have to be in the country to get a photo like the one above.''Victoria Falls isn’t just one of the top tourist destinations in Southern Africa but in''all of Africa.''It’s little wonder why every tour of Southern Africa add it to the list of stops. Just outside of Livingstone (Zambian side), one can go into a pool on the edge of Victoria Falls and take in the views. It’s been mentioned as a highlight by a number of travelers we have run into and can easily be organized and run by''It’s been mentioned as a highlight by a number of travelers we have run into and can easily be organized and run by''Tongabezi Lodge.''The good news is that Vic Falls is easily accessible from Kasane, a meeting point between Namibia, Botswana, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.''Looking for more info?''Check out the Victoria Falls accommodation we stayed at!''White water raft at Victoria Falls!''Swim with Whale Sharks at Tofo Beach''One of our best days in Southern Africa still remains as the day we swam one meter away from a giant whale shark in Mozambique. Yes,''one meter.''The ocean safari’s offered off the coast of Mozambique are nothing short of spectacular. We spent just several hours on one with a dozen whale sharks, four giant manta rays, and even a hammerhead. Cameron narrowly missed being clobbered by one of the giant manta rays a fight he surely would have lost.''Have I told you''about how much I love Mozambique?''Climb To The Top of Drakensberg Amphitheatre''The Drakensberg Amphitheatre is one of the most photographed locations in Southern Africa and it’s a sight to be seen. The amphitheater occupies a tiny portion of the Drakensberg mountain range. Its sheer cliff faces in the form of amphitheater are commonly referred to as the most beautiful cliff faces on earth – and for good reason! \xa0With that being said very few make the dizzying hike up to its summit, Mont Aux Sources.''The day we climbed to the top I thought would be my last. At the final ascent, we were confronted with a 60-meter tall chain ladder that dangles off of a cliff face at 3000 meters above sea level. It is a terrifying task and surely deserves to make our Southern Africa bucket list.''The views from the top of the mountain are overwhelming. There is no doubt that tackling this famous stretch of mountains\xa0is more rewarding than standing at their base.''We Swear''the''Drakensberg are amazing!''Soak in The Tranquility of Lake Kariba''Lake Kariba is another body of water that can be seen in both Zambia and Zimbabwe and is''well worth the effort to get there''. The lake is breathtaking and one of the largest man-made lakes on the planet. The massive lake was created as a joint hydroelectric project between Zambia and Zimbabwe by building a dam\xa0on the mighty Zambezi River.''The impressive dam can be seen in Kariba Town, Zimbabwe, but to get into the heart of the lake we recommend traveling around the north of Zimbabwe for one awesome Southern Africa bucket list experience. Make sure be prepared with a''solid overland vehicle''and''some camping equipment''.''We spent''Christmas on Lake Kariba and it was magical!''Jump Off The Bloukrans Bridge''Bungee jumping is cool. Bungee Jumping off the highest bungee bridge in the world is downright awesome. The Bloukrans Bridge is located along South Africa’s famous garden route. It also happens to be home to the tallest bungee bridge in the world and one of the''best adventures in South Africa.''We made the trip here early in the morning so that we could''wake ourselves up without coffee. As soon as we were done we wanted to go again! For adrenaline junkies, this is the thing to do in Africa.''Check out this South Africa tour''Watch The Sunrise Over Sossusvlei''I’m so happy to have found someone that enjoys sleeping in as much as I do. It’s true – Cameron and I are not morning people.''I repeat – not morning people.''However, to see the oldest and tallest sand dunes in the world at sunrise we were more than willing to get up at 4 am.''The sun rising over the goliath sand dunes of the desert was perfect. Most people make a mad\xa0dash as soon as the''Sossusvlei park''opens to Dune 45. We pushed on past Dune 45 so that we could have the sunrise all to ourselves and couldn’t have been more satisfied with our decision.''Check out''our experience driving around Namibia''Wanna go to Namibia?''Drink Cheap Wine In Stellenbosch''Can someone please take us''back to Stellenbosch''? The South African wine region is located right outside of Cape Town. The region makes some fantastic wines such as sauvignon blanc, cabernet sauvignon, and merlots. However, they also have their own variety the of grape the Pinotage that produces the wonderful Cape Blend.''The wines in Stellenbosch are quality at a minimal cost. We were able to have glasses of wine for less than $3 a glass, get filled up on different''wine pairings for less than $10,''and drink world class wine to our heart’s content. Africa bucket list? Check!''Book a wine tasting tour!''Snowboard In The Mountain Kingdom''Did you know that you can snowboard in Africa? We sure didn’t until we got to Lesotho. Once we found out about Afriski in Lesotho, we knew we just had to go and snowboard down Africa’s tallest slope ourselves. We spent a great day in the Maluti Mountains brushing up on our snowboard skills while wearing t-shirts.''It may not be the greatest ski slopes on the planet, but they are definitely some of the most interesting. Plus you get to tell people you’ve been to a ski\xa0resort in Southern Africa.''Book a Lesotho tour''Take Ride Through The Delta In A Mokoro''A mokoro is a traditional dugout canoe in Botswana and is the transport method of choice in the Okavango Delta.''Getting to Botswana''and seeing the Okavango Delta was high on our Africa bucket list.''The stunning swath of earth is featured in almost every wildlife documentary ever made. Drifting through the marshy wetlands, one can see elephants, buffalo, baboons, impala, and just about everything you can imagine in Botswana.''The best news? You don’t have to be a millionaire to see the Delta, despite common perceptions.''Go to the Okavango Delta''Walk on Bazaruto Island in Mozambique''Crystal clear turquoise water, pure white sand, and a myriad of parrotfish make up the Bazaruto Archipelago near Vilanculos, Mozambique. A day trip to Bazaruto Island is sure to make your jaw drop.''The natural beauty, the remoteness, and the spectacular marine life are sure to entice any traveler. It’s also home to the largest population of dugongs in the Indian Ocean. Don’t know what dugongs are?''Check out how cool they are''!''We drove to Vilanculos just to go snorkeling in the Indian Ocean, do cartwheels in the white sand, and watch the dhows bring the day’s fresh catch and we never wanted to leave.''Watch The Lion King Unfold In Etosha National Park''Etosha National Park is a highlight of any trip to Namibia''. The park is situated on the giant Etosha Pan, a flat salt bed so large that it can be seen from space. The park is very dry but has a countless number of man-made and natural watering holes that almost always yield a great animal sighting.''The game density at the watering holes is can be mind blowing at times as all animals come to take a drink. Visitors can take it easy and sit at a watering hole while the wildlife comes to them. Besides seeing rhino, lion, and hyenas in Etosha I can’t help but mention the price. It only costs visitors 80 Namibian Dollars to enter (that’s about $5 USD), making it one of the''most affordable and accessible parks in Africa''.''Zebra Crossing Road In Etosha National Park''Ride A Horse In The African Bush''A horseback safari is a\xa0perfect way to see wild animals in Africa. When you approach animals on horseback, the wildlife does not recognize it as a loud vehicle and allows the horse to enter its space in an unobtrusive way. This grants a more intimate viewing with the animals.''We took this journey up a''mountain in South Africa’s Drakensberg Mountains''and stumbled across a herd of eland. Which, happens to be Cameron’s favorite antelope.''Go For A Walk In\xa0Swaziland''Bush walks in Africa require well seasoned and trained guides. However, there are a number of parks that do not have the perils of the larger ones.''For instance, we took to walking around Swaziland’s Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary,\xa0between Mbabane and Manzini, where there are no large predators. It was a great way to get out of the car, stretch our legs, and get as close we could to the animals.''Wondering where Swaziland is?''Don’t worry so is everyone else.''See The Bats In Kasanka National Park''Kasanka National Park in Zambia is true African wilderness. The park is largely wetlands and allows visitors a chance to spot wetland creatures like the sitatunga antelope and storks.''It’s also where ten million bats call home every November and December. Yes,\xa0ten million fruit bats come to these swamp lands making it the largest mammal migration on Earth!''We had such a fantastic time driving around Zambia!''(sarcasm).''Driving through Kasanka National Park''Sundowner in Kasanka National Park''Have A Sundowner At Fish River Canyon''Fish River Canyon in Southern Namibia''is the largest canyon in Africa, and second largest in the world. It’s an awe-inspiring place and will sure to humble all who stare into its deep canyon walls.\xa0While the canyon is breathtaking we found it best enjoyed with a cold sundowner in hand and the sun setting over the landscape.''The truly brave can also take on the canyons harsh elements and hike through the base.''Read our''Namibia travel tips for your trip there.''Live On A Houseboat In The Chobe River''We didn’t realize how amazing Chobe National Park was until we left. The river and national park now hold a special place in our hearts and we hope to return one day. We were fortunate enough to spend six nights on the Chobe River listening to fish-eagles and watching herds of elephant come to the water to bath.''The Zambezi Queen Collection''is a group of houseboats that permanently live on the river and invite guests into their well-appointed rooms.''Chobe National Park can be seen on land via a traditional overland safari as well as from a boat on the Chobe River. However, it is a real highlight to view wildlife from a close distance on a boat. The Chobe National Park is easily accessible from Kasane, a gateway town in Botswana that connects Namibia, Botswana, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.''Here is a great Chobe tour''Explore The Tip Of Africa''We spent two months living in the Western Cape''so there was no way we were not going to mention more of it! Besides soaking up the cool vibes and the sunshine in Cape Town, a''day trip to Cape Point is more than picture-worthy.''The rugged coastline on the tip of Africa and is an incredible end to a dramatic continent. As the Atlantic and the Indian Ocean collide a spectacle ensues, waves slam into the steep cliffs, seabirds call overhead, and a sea breeze hangs in the air. It is tough to compare the Cape Point to anywhere else in the world.''Cape Point is 60 km South of Cape Town and is easily accessed by car. We would recommend at least a full day taking in the fynbos, enjoying a few hikes, grabbing photos at the lighthouse, and dining at the Two Oceans Restaurant.''Check out Cape Point tours!''Stand In Front Of Maletsunyane Falls''High in the Mountain Kingdom are the Maletsunyane Falls. The falls were once an adventure across some poor roads. However, a new system of roads venturing out to these remote falls is easy than ever. And the drive is simply amazing.''The falls (or fall) are 192 meters high and the''highest single-drop waterfall in Africa.''We\xa0would recommend going in the summertime to see the falls in all their green lush glory, however, we went in the winter and still fell just as much in love.''Cruise Along The Zambezi River''The Zambezi River is the fourth longest river in Africa and certainly deserves to be seen at either sunrise or sunset. The river is famed by African explorers looking for a route across Africa and was explored by David Livingstone himself.''When cruising down the mighty river you feel that you are in the heart of Africa and by some accounts you are. From the river visitors can\xa0all manner of African wildlife as they come for a drink of water.''Read more about our''Canoe safari on the Zambezi!''Get on the Zambezi''Have a Sundowner while watching wildlife''“Sundowner” is a well-known term one uses to describe having a drink while the sun goes down. This act can be experienced anywhere in Africa. It is the quintessential thing to do in the African bush. It’s best enjoyed with bush buddies, your significant other, or by yourself.''All you need is a drink, the sun, and Africa.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Look the part:''Here is our guide to choosing the''best safari clothes''for your adventure.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Read Next:''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''The Ultimate African Safari Guide''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Ultimate Southern Africa Bucket List''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Natasha''Besides the fact that Malawi is one of the smallest countries in Africa, and directly on our overland route through Africa, Malawi was a country I knew little about. I’ve met people that had traveled to Tanzania, South Africa, Namibia, and all the other “popular” African nations – but never had I met anyone that had been to Malawi. I knew that I had to visit Malawi while we were venturing around Africa. We crossed over the''Chitipa Border Post''from Zambia with very little expectations, and what we found shouldn’t be missed by anyone traveling around Southern and Eastern Africa.''Why You Should Definitely Visit Malawi''There’s a Lake!''Malawi is a land of varying landscapes. From rolling hills to African plains and long valleys, visiting Malawi truly surprised me with all it had to offer. However, perhaps the country’s most well-known feature is Lake Malawi. Lake Malawi, or “Lake Nyasa” (Malawi was once called Nyasaland when under British rule) is the ninth largest lake''in the world''and the second deepest lake in Africa, after\xa0Lake Tanganyika.''The\xa0UNESCO World Heritage site is 360 miles long and its shores can be found mixing with the land in Malawi, Mozambique, and Tanzania. However, Malawi gets the privilege of claiming most of the lake theirs. I was excited to visit Lake Malawi. I had heard of the dazzling, sparkling blue waters filled with countless species of fish.''Needless to say that the first time I laid eyes on the beautiful lake I was not disappointed. The water was crystal clear and cool shade of turquoise. No time was wasted and Cameron and I grabbed some snorkels and made our way straight under the sheet of blue. We had never snorkeled in a lake before, but Lake Malawi holds more than 1,000 species of cichlids of all types of different colors so I knew I would see something! Besides the rainbows of cichlids, we also found eel, killifish, and catfish in the lake!''It’s the Warm Heart of Africa''From the moment we entered the country from Zambia I fell in love.\xa0Malawi is dubbed the “warm heart of Africa,” and once you arrive you will see why. The people here are known for being the friendliest in Africa. No one is pushy, most areas are safe, and locals just walk around with a smile on their face. Children, teenagers, men, women, grannies – just everyone was friendly and eager to chat. I would say 100% of the time we met a Malawian a handshake was immediately extended towards us and a conversation ensued.''Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world, but you honestly wouldn’t think it given everyone’s seemingly positive outlooks. Instead of stares, we received waves, smiles, and curious questions from locals. The children were some of the happiest we’ve come across in Africa. In fact, my favorite memory from our visit to Malawi was when a group of four young girls came up to me as I was walking and just held my hand. They asked my name and I told them it was “Natasha.”''The girls, perhaps they were between three and five, said back to each other “NASHASHA.” They walked with me back to where we were staying for the afternoon. They didn’t ask me for sweets or money like we’ve been asked for in the past, but instead, they asked me for pens.''We’ve been traveling around with small notebooks and pens to give to school children so I got some out of the car and gave them each a notebook with a pink, orange, and purple pen. I told them to please study and do well in school (not like they could understand me), and they stared at me like I had just given them a million dollars. I walked away and then they started running, smiling, and chasing after me chanting''“NaShaSha, NaShaSha, NaShaSha!''” It was heart warming, genuine, and amazing at what a little thing like a pad of paper can do for a child.''The more we travel, the more we see that the children with absolutely nothing are some of the happiest in the world.''Wonderful Livingstonia''High in the mountains of Northern Malawi is Livingstonia. A small town established in the late 1800’s by missionaries looking to escape malaria around the Lake. Livingstonia was a highlight for us while traveling in Malawi and is definitely worth exploring. Livingstonia is 900\xa0meters above the lake and is accessible by either driving or hiking up the hairpin dirt roads. Not wishing to put any more strain on dear Charlie and in desperate need of a good hike we decided to walk up to Livingstonia.''The hike took us about three hours in the humid Malawian air, but we met locals who said they do it in an hour and a half. Of course, we were not local, did not know the short cuts, and wanted to take countless photographs. We met a few other travelers who were also hiking, but if that is not your thing you can hitch a ride on one of the local trucks going up and down (we felt more confident on our feet given the state of the road).''Once at the top visitors can take in the stunning views, visit Manchewe Falls, and relish in the cool mountain air. The town of Livinstonia is also home to some impressive Scottish architecture, the beautiful Livingstonia Mission Church, and even a coffee shop.''You Can Work Off the Calories''We found good food choices around Lake Malawi. We found fresh grilled''fish, nsima, and relish.''In Nkhata Bay we enjoyed a Thai restaurant and an Indian joint. We ate till our hearts contempt around the lake, but never worried about gaining weight.''There are so many ways to stay active in Malawi. All the activities make us feel so refreshed and rejuvenated after spending so long''driving around Africa.''Snorkeling, kayaking, stand up paddle boarding, and swimming is all on offer around Lake Malawi.''We found the hikes around Northern Malawi fantastic as well. From hiking up to Livingstonia to wandering through''Nyika National Park''on a walking safari there is plenty to stay active within Malawi. Just make sure to have the''right clothes for your safari''or hike. Add that to the fact that the country is pretty safe compared to its neighbors so even just walking around the streets\xa0is more popular than in other African nations.''There is\xa0No One''For a country so central in Africa we were a bit surprised to find so few travelers in the country. Actually, never mind, I am not really that surprised. We knew Malawi wasn’t a popular African destination and that’s what drew us to the country even more. Malawi is tiny so most tourists either overlook the country or pass through giving it two to three days on their way going north or south on the Cape to Cairo route. During our three weeks in Malawi, we met the only handful of other travelers. I even got surprised when I saw other mzungu at points! (Swahili for white people) Many of the foreigners we encountered in the country were in fact there for a long-term NGO project or working in the country.''Malawi is tiny so many tourists overlook the country or pass through giving it a day or two on their way along the Cape to Cairo route. During our three weeks in Malawi, we met only a handful of other travelers. We even got surprised when we saw other mzungus at points! (Swahili for white people) Many of the foreigners we encountered in the country were in fact there for a long-term NGO project or working in the country.''I’m not sure I should even be writing this post and letting others know how awesome Malawi is because a little part of me wants to keep it to myself. However, the other part of me wants everyone to go experience how warm the people are and to spend a day hiking around the beautiful the rolling mountains before jumping in the cool waters that make up the lake.''So go to Malawi and enjoy removing yourself from some of the main hotspots in Africa. I promise you a paradise without the crowds that won’t disappoint you.''General Malawi Travel Info''We entered overland from''Zambia via the Chitipa border.''Other popular land crossings are the Songwe from Tanzania, Chapati from Zambia, and Mulanje\xa0from''Mozambique.''Most nationalities now need a visa before they can enter Malawi. We got one on arrival for $75 USD paid for in cash only.''New USD notes are gold in Malawi. The banks do not take old currency so if paying with dollars most businesses will only accept fairly new notes. At the border, we were told we had to pay with dollars newer than 2013. When we tried to pay for lodges and food inside the country businesses wouldn’t accept any notes before 2006.''ATM’s are readily available in major towns. We were limited to pulling our 80,000 Kwacha per transaction. Just about''nowhere''takes credit card in Malawi. You''may''get lucky with a Visa card at some locations to pay, but don’t count on it outside of big cities.''If you’re not much of a driver, but still want to see Malawi check out some of these''Malawi tours.''The official languages of Malawi are English and Chichewa. We got by fine with English just about everywhere.''We went in Lake Malawi despite the slight risk of''Bilharzia''. Bilharzia tablets can be picked up at any pharmacy and cost us a whopping 1000 Kwacha each for Bilharzia treatment.''If self-driving expect a plethora of police roadblocks throughout the country. The police usually just asked us where we were heading and occasionally asked to see the paperwork. We never experienced any bribery, but did get a ticket for 6000 Kwacha after the police caught us going 7 km’s over.''Malaria is a big risk in Malawi.\xa0Cerebral malaria\xa0(the most dangerous kind) is prevalent in the country so take your medicine, spray insect repellent, and sleep under a mosquito net at all times.''Read Next:''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Five Reasons You Should Visit Malawi while Overlanding Africa''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''Looking for the best travel pillow for long haul flights? We’ve reviewed the J Pillow, Skyrest Travel, Therm-a-Rest, Be Relax, and Cabeau Evolution Pillow – all some of the best airplane pillows on the market.''What does a great airline pillow mean?''No more leaning on nasty germ filled windows, no more stiff necks, and no more red eye flights filled with no sleep. It’s time to get a decent rest on long distance flights.''We always pack one in our''carry on bags'', and they make a world of difference on the body. First things first let’s take a look at what makes a great pillow for long travel days.''What to Consider Before Buying a Travel Pillow''Comfort''Comfort is the most important aspect to consider before buying a travel pillow. If you can’t fall asleep while with your pillow on a long haul flight, or any travel for that matter, what is the point? Having a comfy place to lay your head is crucial and the main reason for this list.''Space''Can you\xa0pack this pillow up when you’re\xa0on the go? Is it light? Can it fit in a carry-on bag? Looking at the logistics of the best airline pillow is key as conserving space is important when packing for your''long haul flight.''Awkwardness''On top of space, you don’t want an airline pillow so big that it is a hindrance to take out. You don’t want to be “that person” with a monstrosity of a pillow. Low key pillows are key to a good and efficient design.''Sleep Style''Are you a side sleeper or stomach sleeper? Do you tend to fall asleep on a tray table or against an airplane window? All travel pillows are made for different sleeping styles and patterns so be sure to recognize what you fall into and opt for a travel pillow that is made for you.''The Best Travel Pillows for Long Haul Flights''Skyrest Travel Pillow''The''Skyrest\xa0Travel Pillow''is an unconventional and new travel pillow that allows you to sleep leaning on your tray table. The\xa0Skyrest supports your chin while seated and allows you to sleep face down or to the side. It is a forward facing pillow that supports your upper body and neck.\xa0Skyrest is inflated with a few big breaths (they claim you can do it in five) and deflates by opening a valve. The Skyrest pillow is roughly the size of an IPad so it\xa0can fit in purses and carry-on bags with ease.''Click to check for current sales''Pros of the''Skyrest Travel Pillow''Good for all sizes. Adjustable in size by deflating and inflating the valve letting it fit perfectly in''your carry on luggage.''Sufficient room between you and the seat in front of you.''Hand Washable.''Large open space to place hands.''Comes with a sleep mask to help with those long flights''Skyrest Travel Pillow''Cons''Large and quite obnoxious and awkward to blow up on a flight''Good if you are comfortable sleeping forward''Final Verdict:''The size and awkwardness of the Skyrest Travel Pillow is only acceptable for long haul flights.''J Pillow''A pillow shaped like the letter “J”..let’s dive in. This pillow sits\xa0under your chin to offer your entire head support. No more “bobbing” up and down while dozing off. The pillow is light and easy to carry, but it is not compact. The''J Pillow''can also be washed, not just the outer lining, so you will be free from all those germs picked up mid-flight.''Click to check for current sales''J Pillow Pros''Innovative design supports head, chin, and neck''Lightweight''Not awkward on a flight and blends in with all other neck pillows''Great for side sleepers on planes and at home watching TV.''Good for all shapes and sizes.''J Pillow''Cons''Multiple users complain that it is too bulky and does not pack up right.''Only supports one side of the head. You will have to manually switch the pillow if you want to lean the opposite way.''Final Verdict:''The versatile of the J Pillow make it a good choice for home users, but not for travelers wanting to save on space.''Be Relax Airline Pillow''The''Be Relax travel pillow''comes in the shape and size of your typical normal travel pillow. However, it comes with all the bells and whistles of something much more. This memory foam pillow has 360° Ergo Smart flat back shape. The high-density memory foam allows the travel pillow to conform to your neck for optimal comfort as well. Are you ready for the best part about this airline pillow? It’s the heat patch situated right at the back providing relief for any neck tensions you may have.''Click here to check current prices''BeRelax Travel Pillow Pros''Heated neck patch''High quality memory foam''Looks like a normal neck pillow''Comes with a travel pouch for the pillow to roll up into.''BeRelax Travel Pillow Cons''Even folded up the BeRelax isn’t super compact''Final Verdict:''I absolutely love this pillow. It’s soft and uses high-quality memory foam while still retaining the shape of a regular travel pillow. The heat patch is just an added bonus.''Therm-a-Rest Lumbar Travel Pillow''The Therm-a-rest is your traditional inflatable pillow. There aren’t many bells and whistles here. Just a straight pillow that is good for lying down or leaning against a window. The''Therm-a-Rest''is good not only for flights, but also for camping, sleeping (unexpectedly) in airports, and for long train rides. The memory foam is comfortable and really mends to your head and body.''Click to check for current sales''Therm-a-Rest Lumbar Pillow Pros''One-handed valve adjustment makes it one of the best travel pillows for long haul flights''Good for the head, but also firm lumbar support.''Light, compact, and packs up into a purse or carry-on''Comes in different sizes and vary by price.''Therm-a-Rest Lumbar Pillow Cons''Easy to get holes in, and then the pillow renders useless''Not much neck support, ideal for laying down but not for sitting up in a plane.''Final Verdict:''The Therm-a-rest is a no frills inflatable pillow good. It’s great for saving on space, but not very innovative on creating comfort.''Cabeau Evolution Airline Pillow''The''Cabeau Evolution Pillow''is one of the top travel pillows for long haul flights on the market. However, it comes at a steep price point. The good news is that it has 360-degree support for all around travel. The pillow even has a water repellent travel bag and comes with memory foam ear plugs.''Click here to check for current sales''Cabeau Evolution Pillow Pros''Responsive memory foams mends to each individual user''Removable and washable cover''The Cabeau Evolution Pillow is flexible and lets you sit comfortably with your head forward or to either side.''Raised side supports to help with neck pain.''Cabeau Evolution Pillow\xa0Cons''One size fits all technology may make it uncomfortable for some.''Some users report the Cabeau does not fit well with headphones on.''Final Verdict:''The Cabeau Evolution is similar to many other travel pillows on the market. The difference here is its 360 support. It’s one of the\xa0best travel neck pillows for long flights but isn’t as compact as some of the others on this list.''Read Next:''Best Travel Towels For Backpacking Around The World''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''The Best Travel Pants To See The World''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''The 5 Best Travel Pillows for Long Haul Flights''was last modified:''April 17th, 2018''by''Natasha''Seeing the big five in Africa is an exhilarating experience. We got our first glimpse of Africa’s mighty animals in''Kruger National Park.''An elephant herd walked in front of our vehicle our first day on safari and we knew every sighting after that would be amazing. The elephant is one of the big five in Africa, but what other animals are in that group?''Africa’s Big Five Animals''The Big Five animals are the following African wildlife:''African Lion, African Leopard, Cape Buffalo, African Elephant, and the Rhinoceros''. The moniker the “Big Five” refers to the five deadliest animals that were popular with big game hunters. However, it is now more commonly used on safari as the five animals to see. Many game reserves, parks, and safari operators use it as their main marketing term. It’s pretty much unavoidable to go on safari, plan a safari, or even think about a safari without coming across the term “The Big Five.” It’s also one of the first questions asked on safari and we figured it would be useful to clarify what exactly the big five are and a little about each animal.''The African Lion''The''lion''is the king of the jungle. Granted, the one habitat lions can not be found in Africa is the jungle. It’s little wonder that they are the most sought after animal on safari and likely the one animal synonymous with Africa. African lions live in a pride and are thought to be some of the most social cats in the world.''Tanzania is home to a whopping 40% of Africa’s lion population''! \xa0While, a lion on the hunt is marvelous to watch the majority of safari goers see the lions basking in the sun after a meal, just like a house cat.''Seen while on safari at''Gondwana Game Reserve''The African Leopard''The''Leopard''is the most widespread of the big five in Africa. However, it is the most elusive and the hardest to spot. The leopards are masters at camouflage. They choose to stalk their pray and once caught they use their power to pull the meal into a tree.''Spotting one in the wild feels like a real treat. It took us five months on the continent until we saw one stalking two Red Lechwe in''Moremi National Park.''By the time we could grab the camera he was already hiding underneath a bridge. It was a fleeting glimpse of a leopard and it illustrates the illusiveness of these majestic animals.''Update:''We saw a few more leopards in the''Masai Mara'', the''Lower Zambezi'',''Mana Pools,''and''Hwange!''The Cape Buffalo''It’s hard to pick which of the big five animals would be the most frightening animal to come across in the bush, but the''buffalo''might be the easy choice. They’re known for employing the strategy of charge first – ask questions later. So, when we went on a bush walk in search of them we made sure to have''the right safari clothes''for the environment, and that was green in the rainy\xa0season.''They can charge at almost 35mph and are one heck of a formidable force. \xa0There are almost no predators to these guys other than some very brave (and''hungry'') lions or a massive crocodile. Don’t worry you’re at least safe in a game viewer!''Seen while on safari in Kruger National Park''The African Elephant''Despite being one of the most loved African animals''Elephants''are very deadly. There is no denying the elephant belongs in the “Big Five.” However, one of Africa’s most dangerous animals is also it’s most iconic. They can be found roaming in herds in 37 of the African nations and they’re also the largest land animals on earth.''Elephants are highly intelligent animals displaying emotions, memories, problem-solving skills, and deep social bonds on a daily basis. It only requires a few minutes with these animals to understand the intelligence and what all the fuss is about.''They are easily our favorite animal to watch on safari. The thought that these animals are so frequently abused by humans pains us both. Elephants are not meant to live in cages, give us rides, or provide us ivory, they belong in the African wild.''The Rhino''The Rhino is the most threatened of the Big Five animals. Poachers are ravaging the Rhino population due to the popularity of Rhino horn in Vietnam and China. It is an utterly ridiculous practice of believing it cures impotence. Leave it to some men to come up with the most far-fetched idea that has lead to devastating effects. The population of Rhino is dwindling and it’s likely they will become extinct.''We’ve seen two types of rhinos in Africa, the black rhino, and the white rhino. Despite their names, both animals are similar in color. The two most notable differences between the species are the mouth and size. Black rhinos are nearly extinct, they are smaller in size, and have a pointed lip designed for eating bushes and twigs. While the White Rhino is has a wide lip and is larger in size. The top photo is a Black Rhino and the bottom is a White Rhino.''Ones with their horn like below are protected by 24/7 armed guards and the others are left in the wild after having their horns surgically removed.''A White Rhino seen in''Etosha National Park''Looking for more?''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Make sure''to know''how to plan a safari.''Look the Part:''Our favorite safari clothes.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''Don’t Think About Skipping Nairobi National Park''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''What’s your favorite “Big Five” animal? Leave a comment below!''The Big Five in Africa • Animals to Spot on Safari''was last modified:''April 8th, 2018''by''Cameron''As the holidays were quickly approaching we had a debate about how we could make our Christmas in Africa a special one. When we were given the opportunity to have a safari at''Musango Safari Camp''in Zimbabwe and jumped at the opportunity.\xa0Spending a holiday on safari is certain to make it an unforgettable one. After all, any holiday that is spent with wild elephants, exotic birds, and hippos is one to take note of.\xa0Musango Safari Camp is situated along the banks of Lake Kariba deep in a valley. Musango is by all accounts in the bush of Zimbabwe and the journey to the camp only added to its allure.''Why you should spend a holiday in Zimbabwe''While many people are freezing their butts off in the states and Europe you can be basking in the''African sun in Zimbabwe.''The holidays in the states are spent rushing around as every gets ready for the festivities. The result is stress, traffic, and crowds so it shouldn’t be a surprise that many are''prone to depression''during the holidays.''Africa is the cure to all that. Relaxing in nature is one of the greatest proven stress relievers and a safari brings you that much closer to the wild. It’s a once in a lifetime experience that soothes your soul as you take in the African air wilderness. It’s one of the many reasons we love Africa and have grown a deep fondness for the “bush.” I hate to be that cliche, but let me quote Hemingway, “''I’ve never known a morning in Africa I was not happy''.”''Musango Safari Camp''Getting to Musango was by''all accounts a journey''. It took us two days of driving on remote roads in Zimbabwe, but that is why''we bought our trusty Land Cruiser''! While most guests may arrive by plane we wanted to drive into Musango ourselves. It was one of the best decisions we’ve made in Africa. The region surrounding Musango was gorgeous and the drive was a true African adventure.''The two days to Musango were spent on single track dirt roads winding through villages, under baobabs, and through small streams. The lake was not some flat body of water we had come to expect. There were rolling hills, mountains, and the lake itself is set in a valley that is green and lush during the wet season. As we drove into camp it became obvious the location was nothing short of spectacular. We were overwhelmed with the sense of being lost in the bush of Zimbabwe.''When we did pull into Musango after hours on the road we were relieved. The main lodge is littered with stories, photographs, and Steve and Wendy Edwards welcomed us to camp as everyone sat down to afternoon coffee. It was a warm welcome that you can only find at owner operated camps around Africa. The perfect way to spend a holiday.''After introductions, we were shown to our personal tent that was situated along the banks of Lake Kariba. The tents were well maintained, clean, and comfortable. It’s hard to call them tents when they feel more like rooms. No need to worry about bucket showers here as all the showers are tiled with river pebbles and fed hot water from a trusty donkey (a wood fired hot water heater).''Nights at Musango Safari Camp are spent listening to hippos grunt and munch on the grass below our tent. In the morning we could watch impala, bushbuck, and elephants walk by grazing on the grass between our tent and the lake. However, Musango is still family friendly with an electric fence around the camp, so we weren’t worried about an unexpected visitor in the middle of the night. Though, there are a few residents that we were always happy to welcome.''A Bushbuck in Zimbabwe''When spending a holiday away from home we don’t look for amenities you might find at chain hotels, but for personalized touch and memorable experiences. For us, Musango Safari Camp excelled at that and made for a Christmas we likely won’t forget. After all, watching the sunset on a herd of elephants is better than sitting in traffic or wrapping expensive presents.''Personalized touch''Steve and Wendy welcomed all of their guests into their family and threw a wonderfully festive Christmas feast. We knew we’d have a wonderful meal when we all sat down to the round tables designed for a family. There are no private tables here, everyone is together as family. It’s a theme that we find at some of''our favorite lodges in Africa''and we hope it continues.''Dinners at Musango are some of the best we’ve had in Africa. We’ve had splendid meals that are elegant, but the food at Musango is all about the understated. You won’t find garnishes or fresh ricotta cheese here. It’s bush food at its finest, or as the safari guides would call it “mom’s cooking”. Everything was excellent – from the fresh baked bread to even the muesli at breakfast. When Christmas dinner was served and we had some of the best roast beef we’ve ever had in our lives and given the previous meals we definitely were not surprised.''What ensued was a long afternoon spent exchanging gifts, relaxing around camp, spotting some mud bathing elephants, and a dip in the pool. Once the sun started to hang low in the sky we all set out on the Pontoon boats and made for the nearest sandy beach for sundowners. Have we mentioned sundowners before? Watching the sun set over Lake Kariba and the bush was the perfect end to Christmas day for us.''Holiday Activities in the Bush''Our holidays were spent not doing the usual activities this year. We enjoyed activities like boat cruises, fishing, village tours, birding, bush walks, game drives, and taking in the African sun. What kind of activities can you always do at Musango Safari Camp?''Boat Cruises''Taking a pontoon along the lake and spotting wildlife from the tranquility of the water is magical. It was something we first introduced to along the Chobe River. However, there we were usually flanked down by dozens of other boats and safari goers. At Musango, I never saw one other boat on Lake Kariba.\xa0When we went for cruises it was just us, the lake, and the wild game that inhabit its banks.''Elephants Bathing In Zimbabwe''Fishing''A big draw for some visitors is a chance to find some of the legendary fish in that live in Lake Kariba. After getting our fair share of fishing on the Chobe River (and not being much of fishermen and women) we gave this one a skip but did see many other guests reel in some fish.''Game Drives''Hopping in a classic game viewer and taking off into the bush is one of our favorite things to do in the world. Each drive is a unique experience that is never predictable. While your body may get fatigued sitting in a game viewer the experience of spotting hidden treasures never gets old. Being this deep in the Africa means that these animals are truly wild and viewing them does not feel like a tourist attraction. You won’t find yourself on a game drive with dozens of other game viewers on the roads like you do in''The Kruger.''Here it is just you, your expert guide, and Africa.''Bush Walks''What is probably the most extraordinary experience as Musango is taking a bush walk with Steve. With decades of experience in the bush and leading guests around the surrounding area, he has a sharp knowledge of his surroundings and will ensure guests will have connected with the bush.''Steve’s knowledge of the surrounding area has even led to the discovery of fossils, fossilized trees, and prehistoric man sites.''The sites all add to the mysticism of the bush along the banks of the lake. With Steve’s experience, you can track down lions, elephants, and buffalo on foot and may come face to face with''Africa’s big five''. We set out in set out in search of some African buffalo, and made sure to have some''clothes to help camouflage us in the African bush''and a sturdy pair of''safari boots''.''Village Tours''Holidays in resorts can often feel like living in a bubble, it’s easy to lose your grounding. While the bush humbles you, visiting the local village reminds you of just how fortunate you are. In Africa, we are so often confronted with how fortunate we are and just how welcoming people are everywhere in the world.''Birding''With over 400 bird species surrounding Musango and inhabiting Matusando National Park birders will feel right at home. While we’re novices at birds we still love seeing the varieties and learning about some fascinating\xa0animals in the bush. A highlight of Musango came right when we arrived, the top viewing deck at Musango was flanked by three separate flycatcher’s nests and we got to see the small chicks grow and leave home!''It’s a story we’ve come to find again and again as we never want to depart a place and head to the next location. So of course, it rang true with Musango Safari Camp. We were sad to leave and Zimbabwean family and the beautiful camp. Our time at Musango was the perfect escape from the modern world and the hustle and bustle of life.''The whole atmosphere of Musango is unique as it is a classic safari camp stuck in time. You won’t find slick new bells and whistles here, but instead a true African wild experience and feeling with Steve and Wendy and the rest of the Musango team.''Check out the beauty of the area on our Youtube Channel''General Info for Musango and Zimbabwe''Visas for Americans traveling to Zimbabwe cost $30 USD payable in cash at the border. Visas are good for 30 days. Americans have the cheapest visas while the Canadians and Brits have it the worst at $75 and $55 respectively.''More info on visas here.''It took us two full days of driving to reach Musango from Vic Falls, and then another full day to drive to Kariba. Most travelers will enter via bush plane.''If self-driving Zimbabwe expect to pay a road tax fee ($30), third party insurance ($30), and a road access fee ($10). No bribery was experienced. Try to get Comesa in Livingstone if you are driving throughout Africa.''Having enough USD before you enter Zimbabwe will make your trip more hassle free.''Prices for Musango start at $450 per person per night and include\xa0all meals, alcohol, and most activities. We recommend staying for at least three nights.''Check out their website''to see their current specials!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Musango Safari Camp''Flights to Zimbabwe:''Travelocity''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Car Rental in Zambia:''We decided to go ahead and\xa0buy a car in Africa. If you want to drive around Africa without the commitment then renting a car with''Auto Europe''is a great starting point.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Read More:''A Christmas Safari at Musango Safari Camp in Zimbabwe''was last modified:''July 5th, 2017''by''Cameron''There must be something between the rat-infested subway platforms\xa0and three-star restaurants\xa0in New York that make people believe it’s impossible to save money in the NYC. We\xa0graduated with liberal and fine art\xa0degrees, so naturally, we thought it was a good idea to move to one of the most expensive cities in the world. We’re not alone! A countless number of our peers flocked to''The Big Apple''in pursuit of their dreams.''Most of these millennials are\xa0flabbergasted that we were able to save enough money to travel the world while living in this world metropolis on entry-level incomes. Both of us had entry level jobs, but we managed to add 50,000 dollars to our savings accounts before we said goodbye to Manhattan. We did so by living cheap in NYC, that means below our means. It’s a goal that is attainable once you set your own NYC living expense budget.''It was enough money to stash some bucks in our 401ks,''start our own business'', and kick off our travels around the world.''How to live in NYC on a Budget''You heard that right!''In the course of 18 months, we were able to''put away more than $50,000 into our savings accounts''. Why so short? Well, that is just about how long it took for us to realize that living in New York City is one giant sham. Yes, it’s a wonderful sham, but none the less a money grabbing, egotistical sham. We still love you, New York!''I moved to New York City thinking I would be taking cabs and drinking cosmopolitans with''Carrie Bradshaw''. This was, of course, a young and naive white girl mentality with too many nights of watching countless Hollywood movies under her belt.''We spent the first few months spending our nights at the hip concerts, wandering into art galleries, and dining in restaurants. We were enjoying what New York does best, escapism. It\xa0was all fun, and that’s what we love about New York, that there is always something to do and see. \xa0It is iconic and a cultural hub. I love New York City. However, between our living expenses and new social life, we weren’t saving anything more than a hundred dollars or so a month.\xa0While that may seem like a lot to a few people, it was far from our financial goals.''We decided it was time to start living in NYC on a budget.''We reevaluated our living expenses, moved apartments, and learned to love home cooked meals. This is where the year of saving started. New York is an expensive city, but we were able to make it slightly more affordable. Here is how much it cost us to live in NYC on a budget, while still living more than comfortable.''What\xa0is the cost to live NYC for cheap?''Cost of rent in NYC''In New York, your primary expense will be housing and you can’t get out of this one. We simply had to put a roof over our heads. Anyone that has lived in NYC knows how ridiculous the housing market can be. Desirable apartments can disappear\xa0in minutes and a good broker can be\xa0the difference between the bachelor pad in American Psycho and that shabby place Robert De Niro called home in Taxi Driver.''Cameron and I decided we were past the age of roommates. We would be living along in either a one bedroom or,\xa0gasp,\xa0a studio. We landed on a one-bedroom newly renovated apartment in the Bronx. Yes, the Bronx. However, we chose to live in Riverdale, an upper-middle-class neighborhood right over the bridge well known for its Jewish population. Riverdale has the lowest crime rate in the Bronx and the second-lowest''crime rate in all of New York City. So no, it wasn’t all “Jenny from the Bronx” there.''Living room of our apartment''We really loved our 800 sq ft apartment. It had a new kitchen, spacious rooms, and huge open windows with a fantastic view over Van Cortlandt park. \xa0We paid''$1800/month''total for this little piece of heaven with no broker fees attached. Or''$900 each''with heat and gas included. \xa0Believe me, this was a ridiculous price for us non-New Yorkers to pay, but anything under $1000 a person in NYC is considered a pretty good deal we came to learn. Forget that it took me an hour ride on the subway to get to work every day. I had my own place, a kitty cat, and massive windows in one of the safest neighborhoods in New York City.''How to find an apartment in New York''There are a number of ways that you can make searching for an apartment in New York easier. Websites, search engines, and even the right mailing list can help with your New York apartment hunt. We suggest''PadMapper''which is actually how we found our apartment in Riverdale.\xa0Two other great online resources that we have used in our apartment search are''Zumper''and''StreetEasy''.''Then for those looking to live “dangerous” there is always Craigslist. Which, is a bit like playing Russian roulette with housing. If you’re seeking a place in Brooklyn we’d also recommend signing up for''The Listings Project''. It’s a safe way to find shared apartments, as in people looking for a sane roommate.''City transportation''Be it the subway, taxi, bicycle, or personal car we had to have transport to lower Manhatten every day. We sold our cars long ago, so no private car rides for us. A taxi from mid town Manhattan to Riverdale was approximate $60…yes, that’s the cost for a 10-mile cab ride across bridges in NYC. Cameron rode his bike 13 miles to work some days, but it was definitely not an everyday option on humid summer days or the icy winter. That leaves the subway – the most affordable and certainly most entertaining option there is. A month unlimited pass on the''MTA will run you $116.50'', or $2.75 if you prefer to pay per one way. No one said living in New York on a shoestring budget would be easy.''Utilities in NYC''In today’s day and age, there is no way I’m getting by without the internet in my apartment. Tack $50 on for the total household bill, or $''25 per person''to stay connected to my favorites like The Office, House of Cards, and Parks & Rec on Netflix. We got this price by shopping around for specials in the area.''We also specifically sought out a building that included hot water, and heat. While it may seem like a small detail the cost of keeping your apartment warm and always running a hot water hear can run up utility costs quick.''Electricity''Can’t avoid this one either unless we are bats. This cost us anywhere from''$50 in the Winter months to $150 in the summer''when we had to blast our little AC unit in the miserable NYC heat. Most buildings, asides pricey modern ones, do not have central air conditioning. So you’re forced to run a less efficient window unit. Then there are the buildings that run outdated and inefficient systems. This is something to note when searching for apartments in NYC, we had friends who would shell out hundreds of dollars in utilities because their building did not include hot-water and they had large old A/C units in the apartments. Pick the wrong apartment and it could easily eat out of your daily living budget in New York.''Food expenses''I just realized this was coming after the internet, but I guess that is the day and age we live in now. Food is another necessity and one we rarely went luxurious on. Besides going for sushi once a week, we kept food expense to an\xa0absolute minimum and always cooked in. I was fortunate because I had breakfast and lunches covered at my job and only had to account for dinner. Cameron was responsible for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and that’s where frozen Trader Joes meals come in handy. On average, we spent between''$50-$100 on food each week.''Cameron is on the higher end at\xa0$100 because of his breakfast and lunch.''Coffee''We love coffee!''Cold brews, cappuccinos, and lattes are delicious and New York is filled with wonderful independent coffee shops. However, at around $5 a coffee they are an absolute budget killer. If you have a cup of coffee every morning on your way to work that is''$25 a week, $100 a month, and $1,200 a year!''If you’re adding food like a bagel or breakfast on top of that the cost skyrockets.\xa0Working on a entry level salary that could destroy your savings goals and severely hinder your income.''That doesn’t mean you have to live without coffee! We bought a''french press''and grounds for our mornings at home. While at work we both fortunate to have offices with coffee so we drank that and bought green tea bags as coffee substitute. Another great idea is to buy a''stainless steel thermos''and bring your own coffee.''Join a gym''We were part of the semi-early days of the phenomenon called''Classpass.''A gym subscription service that at the time cost $100/month for unlimited classes at different studios around the city. Though''$100/month''for a gym membership seems steep (and it is), in New York, this was a considered a pretty good deal.''This is one of the main things I miss about living in New York City. I got to go to some amazing gyms, meet great people, and get in shape through a ton of different ways. In a single month, I tried Bollywood dancing, to Ballerina fitness, to Marine Boot Camp, all while taking showers in some the most pristine Manhattan fitness clubs. Splurging on my gym membership made living in NYC on a tight budget more bearable. However, from my understanding the price has drastically risen since we lived in New York last year, making it a less fantabulous deal.''Splurging on my gym membership made living in NYC on a tight budget more bearable. However, from my understanding the price has drastically risen since we lived in New York last year, making it a less fantabulous deal. Either way one of the best ways to stay on budget while living in New York it to pick productive and cheap hobbies, the gym is the perfect example.''FUN''Okay, we did have some''fun,''but in New York, fun is expensive. More importantly, fun is time-consuming. When you’re working 10-12 hour days 6 days a week, the last thing I want to do is meet someone for drinks after work – I want to sit in my pajamas with my cat while watching Breakfast at Tiffany’s. However, we still went to the movies every once in while ($16.50 a ticket in the Upper West Side), saw numerous ballets, visited the museums (ticket prices are a suggested donation!), and operas at the Lincoln Center. Oh, and did I mention sushi!? Throw in about''$200 a month''for fun.''Total cost to live in NYC''We lived in the Bronx, commuted an hour to and from work each day, cooked all our food in, and got most of our entertainment from different fitness classes around the city. Living this kind of lifestyle wasn’t exactly the most exciting, but it did only cost us about $1350-$1450 each while living in NYC. Could we have done it cheaper? Of course. Could we have splurged a bit more? Oh hell yes. Spending $1350 a month was pretty bare bones for the type of life we were living in New York, considering my\xa0paycheck wasn’t even double that (without my second job), it was quite hard to save money at times. However, we managed to save, and save, and save. It took some determination, but it can\xa0be done.''Living in New York doesn’t have to involve a cab ride to dog sit your best friends Yorkie,\xa0a $75 all you can eat pasta dinner (yes, this exists), or a $15 martini so you can desperately search for the love of your life. With some patience and determination, living in NYC can be quite comfortable and even allow you to put away some money in the bank so you can escape the city!''Bare minimum expenses in New York came to about''$1400/month''for us and realistically I could have cut out $200 more of this if I wanted to live like a hermit. It’s still worth noting that Cameron and I both travel the world on less than $1000 per month. In some places like Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia we can even get by comfortably on $700-$900. So yes, we lived in NYC on the cheap end working six days a week with minimal fun for $1400. Now, we see amazing places in the world and working from our laptop for around $1000!''Learn more about our finances''Travel Banking Breakdown: How to Save and Protect Your Money''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''How Much Does Backpacking Europe Cost?''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''The Honest Cost to Backpack Through Europe''March 6, 2018''25 Easy Ways to Save Money for Travel''August 22, 2017''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''August 19, 2017''Plan a trip to\xa0NYC''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in NYC:''We often get asked how to find housing in New York. So you don’t get stuck in a bad housing situation I would recommend''basing yourself at an Airbnb''while you apartment search. Apartment hunting in New York is like nowhere else in the world and can be extremely difficult.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to NYC:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend a''good guidebook''to get you around NYC.''Have You Had to Live in NYC on a Budget?''Read Next:''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''Three Unheard of Ski Resorts in Idaho Well Worth a Trip''April 24, 2018''The Best Ski Resorts in Colorado Everyone Can Enjoy''April 19, 2018''How Much Does it Cost to Live in NYC on the Cheap?''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Natasha''Driving in Africa is a different experience. When I take a look at GoogleMaps everything is flat and roads are solid lines. It gives off the impression of\xa0“ah, this will be a piece of cake!”''That is a serious misconception''.''Sitting comfortably at a''lodge in Victoria Falls''we knew it was time for an adventure in the African bush. The goal of this particular journey\xa0was to drive around the fourth largest man-made lake in the world, Lake Kariba. We would be''traveling through Zimbabwe.''The\xa0drive would take us roughly 800 kilometers and there was no guarantee we’d find petrol in route.''Private pool, Zambezi Beer, Zambezi River, and contemplating the journey''Driving Around Lake Kariba''Thanks to some assurance from a Zimbabwean bush veteran that “if there is a will there is a way,” we set off. The next day, in an effort to avoid the dreaded police road blocks of Zimbabwe, we took the backroads only 10km outside of Victoria Falls.''And the state of the roads deteriorated. Rapidly.''Driving down single track dirt roads and passing through rural villages we were in the midst of the real overland journey. In rural Africa, there aren’t many vehicles driving around on a daily basis. So, once we had turned off the main road out of Victoria Falls we were completely on our own. There was no AAA, mechanics, fuel stations, hotels, or even cell reception.''With no cars on the road we stopped and enjoyed the views.''Our first day we were set on making it to the biggest town on the Southern edge of the lake, Binga. When we pulled in after six hours of dirt roads and\xa0found nothing more than a few concrete buildings, guesthouses, one garage, and one gas station we realized just how remote we were.''One hour of driving around town and not finding petrol we at least found a home. Masumu Lodge was luxury compared to our other options around Binga. We set up camp, made dinner, and threw on a movie before going to bed and mentally prepping for another long drive. The next day was going to be a tough push as we had to descend a mountain and leave the main dirt roads behind.''Zimbabwe was turning out to be as difficult and a pain in the ass as we had been warned. Some South African’s had even gone so far as to outright tell us we shouldn’t go.''“You won’t have a good time.”''However, with a bit of grit, we took on the day hoping to prove them wrong.\xa0And it was one of the most beautiful days we’ve had in Africa. The valleys that surround Lake Kariba are nothing short of ancient and magical.''The day started winding through remote villages on single track roads. Along the road were villagers who would stop and stare or simply smile and wave. It was all captivating and we felt that for the first time in a while we were exploring new depths of Africa.\xa0The route, to say the least, is not popular.''The roads are badly corrugated and have massive ruts at points.''Being only rookies at Overlanding''we had not done a proper packing of the car. The result was all of our stuff was given a proper “African massage,” as it was thrown around the cab. The sound of a soda spraying across the back after a large bump was the icing on the cake.''As the rains had finally arrived in this region of Zimbabwe we found rivers overflowing, sections of the road missing, and a sea of lush green forest. The woodland was alive and we were right in the thick of it. We continued our descent and after seven hours on the dirt roads we pulled in Musango Safari Camp and breathed a deep sigh of relief.''There was only one small problem. We didn’t have enough fuel to finish our journey, to be sure we’d make it we would need roughly 60L of fuel.''Using the bush network our hosts, Steve and Wendy, went about getting us some fuel. We got lucky and on Christmas day our fuel was delivered to us via speed boat from the neighboring crocodile farm. The fuel came in at the''low price of $2 a liter or $120 for 60L of fuel''. To put this in terms American’s will understand we paid $7.63 a gallon. Think about that the next time you complain about fuel prices.''The drive out from Musango brought about new challenges. The night before heavy rains had occurred and the roads subsequently turned to mud. We climbed about 800m up the mountain and crossed sections where the road had disappeared. Other sections were hastily being replaced by locals with rocks, makeshift dams, and wood.''This much mud and water only two hours into the drive.''We pressed on and Charlie was working hard to get us around the lake. The road network gradually improved as we made it around the lake and grew closer to the dam. We crossed through the Charara wilderness area in Zimbabwe and found impala grazing along the road, baboons, lots of birdlife, and eventually came to a dead stop when two elephants greeted one another in the middle of the road.''We were in the Africa we dreamed of.''When we pulled into the small town of Kariba we had driven another nine hours on the worst roads (but most beautiful) we had experienced in Africa.\xa0We set up camp along the banks for one last night on Lake Kariba. Then went to the campsite bar for some Zambezi lagers, beef stew, sadza, and relish. This is the perfect meal to end a trip in Zimbabwe.''Read More:''Seeking Petrol For The End Of Lake Kariba''was last modified:''February 6th, 2017''by''Cameron''There is probably no other state in the United States that offers holiday goers as much as California. From picturesqu''e''beaches''to purple fields on mountaintops to the snow-capped\xa0Sierra Nevada Mountains – California has something for everyone.''It’s no wonder that Americans and international travelers alike flock to the state for their vacations. G''o ahead and rent that Corvette and check out some of these''California vacation rentals''for the perfect trip in the United States.''Five Must See Places in California''Kings Canyon National Park''Kings Canyon National Park''is well known for its never-ending valleys,\xa0distinctive rocks, and towering trees located near Sequoia National Park.''A popular thing to do in the Southern Sierra Nevada mountain range is to take a car and take in the stunning views at your own pace. I promise you won’t be disappointed by the rivers, gorges, and canyons. Don’t even bother bringing water – you’ll be able to fill up your bottles at the fresh ice-cold streams.''Bowling Ball Beach''The name Bowling Ball beach could only be named after one thing…bowling balls! When the tide is out visitors are able to see endless round rocks of similar shapes and sizes that look exactly like the inside of a bowling alley on Friday night (without the disco ball).''Bowling Ball Beach is great for getting picturesque photos of the lovely California coast. Beyond that, there is decent surf just a bit north at Whiskey Shoals as well as good place to try your hand at SUP.''Lavender Fields on Mt Shasta''The lavender fields of Mt. Shasta are a seasonal treat that burst to life in the summer season. It a working farm and the lavender being grown is used for oil, cooking, and of course decoration.''The best thing to do here is take in the beautiful Mountain views while filling all of your senses with the fresh lavender from the purple fields. Be sure to grab a basket to collect some of the lavender. My favorite thing to do with the lavender\xa0is to use it as perfume!''Redwoods National Park''Did you know that the Redwood trees (''Sequoia sempervirens'') are the tallest tree species on earth?''The Redwoods National Parks are four parks in total and are home to 45% of the coastal redwood.''Beyond Disney Land and San Franciso, the Redwood trees are pretty much iconic to Californians. The United Nations have even declared the parks a UNESCO World Heritage site. Come here to be thoroughly impressed and to see just how amazing the earth is.''Big Bear Lake''Big Bear Lake by San Bernadine gets its name from the grizzly bears that once dominated the area. It is an ideal holiday destination for vacationers looking for the perfect mountain lake escape. If you’re looking to get around to all of these destinations in California you pick up a''Los Angeles based RV Rental''.''Southern California’s best snowboarders and skiers come in droves when the fresh powder falls along the slopes. For those not looking to get on top of the mountain Big Bear Lake has fantastic cross-country skiing, snowshoeing, and shopping.''Read More:''21 Amazing Things to do in Toronto''May 2, 2018''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''Five Must See Places in California''was last modified:''March 8th, 2018''by''Natasha''Whether you’ve chosen to self-drive Africa or join in on an\xa0overland\xa0safari, chances are you will be camping in Africa at some point. Africa is not as developed as the rest of the world meaning hotels, guesthouses, and hostels are few and far between.''We’ve had a lot of trial and error with basic camping and Africa, but here are our top recommendations to get you through Africa camping!''Words to live by''The Africa Camping Basic Essentials''A comfortable tent:''We bought our tent at''Cape Union Mart''in Cape Town before we left. We opted for a 3 person even though there are only two of us so we weren’t cramped and paid about $120. Needless to say this has proven to be a fantastic decision, as we love the extra space. You can find cheaper ones at Supermarkets, but be wary of the quality.''Here is another great tent for camping in Africa.''Sleeping Bags:''We also purchased high quality sleeping bags at Cape Union Mart to camp in Africa. Our intention is to take this around the world with us so we both ended up spending about $100 on our sleeping bags. You can definitely get cheaper ones online before you land, or at any supermarket. If you are traveling Africa in the summertime I don’t think a sleeping bag is necessary. Just get a sheet and you will be good, as it gets unbearably hot.''Here is a good sleeping bag almost identical to ours.''Pillows:''Buy them in Africa. You can find cheap ones at Mr. Price all over Southern Africa.''Sleeping pads:''Buy them in Africa. Since we have a car we decided to get big''comfortable pads at Cymot in Namibia''for $50 each. My back is worth a lot of money to me. However if you want to go cheaper and lighter than a yoga mat will be just fine. We found many people with inflatable air mattresses also which are found at any large supermarket.''Headlamps:''I recommend getting these before you leave home. They are tiny to pack and I never saw any great deals in Africa. Get one for each person in the group – you don’t want to be the person to step on a scorpion.''These are the ones we have.''Mosquito Spray:''Buy it in Africa. Can be found at any supermarket. Tabloid and Peaceful Sleep are the most popular brands.''Sunscreen'': Buy it before. It is very expensive in Africa. We like using''PEAK sunscreen.''Table and Chairs:''Will make life so much easier and more enjoyable.''Leatherman:''Good for just about anything and always nice to have''Cooking Gear for Campers''Burner''Cast Iron Skillet''Cast Iron''potjie pot''Eco-friendly cups''Stainless steel coffee mugs''French Press for Coffee (Very cheap in South Africa)''Pairing Knife''Butcher Knife''Silverware set''Vegetable peeler''Kettle with a foldable handle:''the foldable handle is a must. We got a kettle that has a sturdy non-foldable handle and it almost always gets in the way and takes up valuable space in our car.''Lighter''Steel Plates''Steel Bowls''Oven Mitten''Strainer''Egg Holder''Braai Grid and tongs''Bucket:''We got a''collapsible one like this''so that it takes up no space. Good for washing dishes, bathing, and many other times when you wish you had a bucket.''Dish Soap and sponge:''Purchase as you go, available everywhere.''Recommended, but not essential''Ear buds'': Didn’t think I would need earplugs camping in Africa, but when staying at campsites in cities these come\xa0in handy. Also many of the birds of Southern Africa are incredible, but you will want to throw a pillow at them to shut up at sunrise every morning.''Bungee cords:''Good for securing things and also for hanging laundry.''Laundry Hooks:''It helps to be able line dry''your clothes after getting them dirty on a safari in the bush''.''Fishing line:''We got this tip from an experienced South African camper. He recommends getting fishing line with a bell on it and wrapping it around your campsite while in the bush. That way you will know if when an animal is around your tent.''High-quality flashlight''Solar powered lamps''Cooler or fridge'': We went with a cooler because we are not big meat eaters. However, ice isn’t available everywhere in Africa so if you want to be absolutely certain that your food will stay cold then purchase a fridge for your vehicle.''Ammo Boxes:''We steered away from cheap plastic tubs and went for some heavy-duty ammo boxes to store our camping gear. This decision proved to be a good one as the lids have never popped off our busted and they are as sturdy as can be.''Camping Shower:''You never know when you’ll arrive somewhere in Africa and there wont be proper ablutions.''Bags of Rice:''The humidity in parts of Africa is no joke. We travel with bags of rice to store our electronics in and keep the humidity out of them.''Inverter''Extra plastic bags''Firelighters''Fly swatter:''Pick it up in Africa, everyone sells these on the sides of the road.''Padlocks''Umbrella or Tarp'': Nothing makes camping suck more than a rainy and muddy day.''Water tank:''If you are driving I would highly recommend purchasing a plastic water tank for any Africa camping. If you ever get stranded you know you won’t die with 25 liters of water in the back.''I started off traveling Africa not really a camper, but after a few months it started to grow on me. I don’t mind sleeping in a tent anymore and waking up to beautiful views like these beat any morning in my boring bedroom. I’m a firm believer that camping is as comfortable or uncomfortable as you make it. This is just a bare bones camping experience, but we are still very comfortable with all that we have. Obviously, camping (''or glamping'') can get much more luxurious with a lot more dinero.''Read Next:''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: The Ultimate Guide''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Africa Camping: The Basic Camping Checklist for Overlanders''was last modified:''April 28th, 2018''by''Natasha''Given''Iceland’s popularity'', we get the question of what to pack for Iceland a lot these days. It’s a question we get a lot about destinations. It’s only natural that once you book your ticket and make travel plans you spend your time wondering what to throw in your luggage.''To be fair there is no quicker way to ruin a trip than to be uncomfortable, but packing for''Iceland''isn’t rocket science and you’ll be fine.We suggest that you consider the length of your trip and''what time of year you’re heading to the Scandinavian country''.''The key to packing for Iceland''is to bring weatherproof clothing and layers. However, if you’re traveling in winter, the winter months in Iceland can be very cold and it’s worth bringing proper winter attire. Any other time of year,\xa0be sure to pack a rain jacket, a''great down jacket'', a warm base layer like a flannel, and a decent''pair of boots''.''Key Points To Packing Your Luggage For Iceland''Before you pack it’s important to determine what you’ll need to bring in your suitcase.''What time of year are you heading to Iceland? Temperatures can vary greatly depending on when you are visiting and will alter your Iceland packing list. If you need more info read about the''best time of year to visit Iceland''.''Will you hang out in Reykjavik? Or will be out in the countryside? We’re active travelers and spent most of our time outside''camping\xa0while we drove around the Ring Road''.\xa0 Your activity will determine your choice of outfits.''How long are you spending in the country? You can get by with a lot less by just layering! Cameron lives out of a''suitcase''so think twice about how much you really need to get by!''What to Pack for Iceland''Essentials''A good jacket:''Surprise! It gets cold in Iceland, even in the summer. I learned this the hard way when I went hiking there in the middle of July without a proper jacket. Bring a jacket. I love my''Patagonia nano puff''jacket because it’s one of the''best packable down jackets on the market''. This should be on any Iceland packing list no matter the season.''Ear muffs''or a hat'': I love wearing ear muffs so I don’t mess up my hair. I also wear my hair in a ponytail a lot so ear muffs ensure that I can keep my pony! If you wear your hair down then consider a nice knit hat.''Looking for the perfect\xa0Victoria Falls Accommodation? On the banks of the mighty Zambezi River is the secluded Victoria Falls River Lodge. Set among the wildlife in the Zambezi National Park, but still deep enough in the bush to go undetected is the ideal lodge to experience Victoria Falls from. Here are 10 reasons to stay at the''Victoria Falls River Lodge in Zimbabwe''.''The Room (or house)''When we first were shown our room at the lodge we were blown away by the size. The room was monstrous with a king size bed, \xa0sectional couch, coffee bar, indoor and outdoor shower, and a two-person bathtub. The room was bigger than our one bedroom apartment in New York. I asked them what we had done to be given the best room, and they told me that all of the rooms were the exact same!''The next few days were spent enjoying a comfortable bed and taking baths while overlooking the lush bush and Zambezi River.''The Fantastic Staff''From the moment we entered the Vic Falls River Lodge the staff was there to help and provide plenty of smiles. Most of the staff members here are from Zimbabwe and love their country, which is apparent from their friendliness.''The level of service at the Victoria Falls River Lodge is certainly some of the best in the area. For each breakfast, lunch, and dinner guests are able to feel at home. Game drives and river cruises are guided by some of the best in Zimbabwe. We decided to take part on two 6 a.m game drives and three-afternoon river cruises. Along the way, we heard stories from the bush and tales of Zimbabwe, relishing in the excitement described by each guide.''The Game Drives''Every day at the lodge guests can choose to go on either a morning or afternoon game drive around the Zambezi National Park. We hit Zimbabwe at the beginning of the rainy season and all the green was refreshing to see after a month in Namibia. We opted to wake up early,''throw on some safari clothes,''and catch the animals before the heat of the day. All the heavy rains and lush bush made the wildlife harder to spot, but we still managed to end our game drive with zebra, giraffe, elephant, impala, warthog, and vulture viewing.''I loved venturing around the Zambezi National Park compared to some of the more popular parks in Zimbabwe. We rarely saw other people and there was never a pile up of cars gathering around an animal.''The River Safaris''If being on a bumpy game viewer in the bush doesn’t suit your fancy then maybe a river cruise on the almighty Zambezi River will! Guests of the lodge are also given the option of jumping on a morning or afternoon river cruise to see the wildlife from a different perspective. Drinks and snacks are provided on each cruise as well. What could be better than African wildlife, the Zambezi River, and gin and tonics?''The Delicious Food''It’s hard to pick just one thing to miss about the Vic Falls River Lodge, but the delectable food is high up there. From morning to evening everyone is stuffed full of fresh fruits, green salads, and hearty vegetables. Instead of a buffet, you are given a menu for each meal time. There is a selection of fish, meat, and vegetarian options on each menu to choose from all while overlooking the Zambezi.''My favorite part? The bloody mary bar at every breakfast.''The Bird Life''Cameron and I have become quite the birders since we began our Africa trip. While we were visiting the Gondwana Game Reserve in South Africa we even counted 44 species in one day! Well. the birds around the Zambezi are nothing short of dazzling as well. On our game drives and boat cruises, we saw plenty of almighty vultures, comrades, kingfishers, and much more!''Our favorite spotting was a huge nest of bee-eaters near the lodge. We sat on the river and watched the gorgeous green birds flutter in and out of their self-made holes for at least 15 minutes!''The Relaxation''The best part about a stay at the Victoria Falls River Lodge is that you don’t have to do anything at all to have a good time! Sure, the game drives and river cruises are fantastic but the lodge is very well set up to do absolutely nothing at all. Each room here has its own private pool with a fridge nearby filled with complimentary Zambezi beers. For those that want to be a little more social, there is a larger pool with new sunbeds to soak in the sun.''The Sunsets and Sunrises''I’ve written before about the fantastic African sunsets and sunrises, but the sunrises and sunsets\xa0over the water are simply fantastic. We aren’t morning people; however, we had to see the sunrise every morning over the Zambezi. Sunset was always complete with a cold drink in hand.''The Location''The Victoria Falls River Lodge is a 20-minute drive from the Zambia/Zimbabwe border. We arrived from Zambia after a few bad experiences with the African border crossings. We were hoping for a relatively pain-free crossing into Zimbabwe. Our dream became reality and thankfully, the two of us and our car were over the famous Victoria Falls Bridge in under an hour!''From there we drove straight to the Zambezi National Park and drove right to the lodge. \xa0The lodge is situated in an ideal location for self-drivers (like us) as well as people that fly in with it’s close proximity to the airport. Although we drove to the lodge most guests will make their entrance via a leisurely cruise to the main reception or by car transfer.''Victoria Falls''I’m saving the best for last here, but one of the main reasons to stay at the Victoria Falls River Lodge is because of Victoria Falls! The “Smoke That Thunders” has been described as one of the seven natural wonders of the world. At\xa01,708 meters wide and a height of 108 meters (354\xa0ft), Victoria Falls is one of the largest waterfalls in the world and is probably one of the main reasons you have come to Zimbabwe. We enjoyed a nice morning with the VFRL crew and other guests on the Zimbabwean side of Vic Falls. VFRL organizes a trip to the falls every morning for guests. The falls are certainly a sight to see and are one of the main attractions in all of Africa.''It costs $30 for foreigners to enter the park (unless you are from an SADC country, then it is $14). I would plan to spend at least half a day gazing at the large spectacle and remember to bring a rain jacket – it gets wet! The falls are best viewed from the Zimbabwe side, but the famous Devil’s Pool can only be experienced from Zambia.''Plan Your Trip to Vic Falls''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Victoria Falls Accommodation:''The Victoria Falls River Lodge is completely accessible to self-drivers. Most packages include transfers from the airport as well. For rates and bookings for your Victoria Falls accommodation check out their''booking site here.''Thank you to the VFRL for providing us with a complimentary stay, as always all opinions are our own.''Flights to Vic Falls:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Look the Part:''Our guide to the best safari clothes.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We didn’t drink the tap water in Zimbabwe, but instead used our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Needless to say, the WiFi isn’t great in Zimbabwe. We like''Lonely Planet''to get through those wireless nights.''Read Next:''Victoria Falls Accommodation: 10 Reasons to Stay at Victoria Falls River Lodge''was last modified:''August 9th, 2017''by''Natasha''By the time we reached the Malawi border I fell to my knees and almost kissed the ground.''We’d had a rough couple of days driving in Zambia after discovering we had driven 1100 kilometers in the wrong direction. The result was a total re-route to our trip in Africa. The border post felt like a miracle because there was zero information on this border post, anywhere!''I’ll start from the beginning with hopes that no one will make the same mistake we did.''Yay for tarred roads!''Driving in Zambia''Lusaka''We spent a week holed up hiding from the rain in the''Protea Hotel Lusaka Tower.''We had made the decision that New Year’s Eve would be fun in the capital city and we were craving good WiFi, health food, and a movie theater. Which is exactly what we got in Lusaka. We had another week until we were supposed to visit the amazing''South Luangwa National Park''before making our way into Southern Malawi. We had been very eager to visit both destinations.''We were almost''guaranteed''to see Leopards at South Luangwa by the multiple guides we had spoken with. Not wanting to spend another whole week in Lusaka,\xa0we decided to head north to Kasanka National Park and Mutinundo Wilderness reserve before crossing South Luangwa park.''New Years in Lusaka''Kasanka National Park''January in Zambia…the rainy season. The rainy season had yet to affect us, but once we got to Zambia we saw what all the fuss was about. We had driven 16 hours through the mud around Lake Kariba on some of the worst roads of our life. Thankfully,''we have a trusty 4×4.''So when we made our way to''Kasanka National Park''the rain and the mud were no different.''The largest mammal migration takes place every year in December at Kasanka. Millions of bats come to the swamp land and viewing the wildlife spectacle is supposedly incredible. We knew it was the beginning of January, but we thought we may still catch the winged creatures at Kasanka.''After paying an exuberant cash price to get into the deserted (and I mean deserted) park we were informed that the last bats had left the day prior.''Perfect.''Even though the bats were gone we still had the chance to be one with nature in the deep bush. We even managed a few short game drives between the downpours. Which, allowed us to spot the rare sitatunga, a semi-aquatic antelope, from a distance…''Keeping the fire alive in Kasanka''Mutinondo Wilderness Area''We left Kasanka with an empty wallet''and zero photos of wildlife. It was still a beautiful spot in the untamed bush, we just wish we could have been there at a different time in the year.''We drove towards''Kundalila Falls''to see the view over the Luangwa Valley. When we finally saw the dilapidated sign for the falls we hung a right and made our way 13 km on the mud track. Almost every single Zambian we passed either stared hard daggers at us or held their hand out screaming “money” as we drove past. I suppose it was the first time they had seen a white traveller in awhile.''We made it to the entrance way to the falls when a lone man appeared. He told us it would be 150 Kwacha ($15) a piece to walk down to the falls and 50 Kwacha ($5) to leave our car sitting in the big empty dirt car park. With another reminder of the''price gouging in Zambia,''we declined to pay $35 to see the falls and continued on our way.''We made it to our next destination,''Mutinondo Wilderness'', awhile later. I told them we just needed one night at their campsite. Without them asking I decided to tell them of our future plans (and thank god I did).''“We are heading to South Luangwa tomorrow. How long do you think it will take to get there?”''The two Dutch managers stared at me.''“Oh, you can’t get to South Luangwa this time of year. You’ll have to drive back to Lusaka and around. I think it should take you about 21 hours.”''I stared at them, I looked at Cam, I stared back at them. I think I giggled a little in between…they had to be joking. “There has to be some sort of way to South Luangwa?” We were literally right next to it!''I continued to tell them that we just came from Lusaka and couldn’t even imagine paying the''crazy petrol prices''or taking the time to\xa0drive all that way again.''You see. There is a road between Mutinondo Wilderness Area and South Luangwa – even paper''and''Google Maps confirms it. But see, it’s the rainy season in Africa, meaning the normal bad mud roads are now bad brown mush roads that are totally impassable. The road we thought we were going to take is only open three months out of the year. Traveling along it any other time is pretty much signing a death certificate.''My friends, this is why you cannot just “wing Africa,” which I see so many people claiming they want to do. This is also why I really really wish Cameron and I were more bush smart and could just know this things like the other overlanders we meet.''Our Choice?''After an hour of kicking ourselves and having a little cry (and a strong gin and tonic), we decided that we would have to cut out South Luangwa and Southern Malawi. With petrol in Zambia costing a whopping $1.40/Liter (over $5 a gallon) and time being a precious commodity, we would continue to northern Zambia before trying to cross over into Malawi from the north.''Stopping to pick up Mangos in Zambia''Leaving Zambia''We had to make the most out of our mistake so we spent a few fabulous days hiking in between the rain near Mutinondo before making our way up to''Kapishya Hot Springs''. From the hot springs, we were to drive into Malawi via the Chitipa border. The Chitipa border exists on a map, but outside of that, I couldn’t find any info on it. Some of the Africans we asked mentioned that the border post may, in fact, be absolutely nothing, and when I asked in the''Overlanding Africa facebook group''no one had been through the border.''This is Africa and things don’t always make sense''. Even though there is a border post on the map doesn’t mean there is one in real life. I was beginning to stress how we would make it into Malawi legally with our car and once again cursing myself for not making it to South Luangwa so I could cross over the “easy” border post at Chipata. With nothing lose…besides a ton of gas and time we awoke at 5 am and made our way towards Malawi.''The Chitipa Border Post''We drove from Kapishya Hot Springs towards the Chitipa Border post. We stopped in Chinsali knowing this would be our last chance to get fuel. We followed Maps.me the whole time which is extremely accurate for bush driving.\xa0It takes three hours to get from the hot springs to Isoka. From there we turned off onto a dirt road. If you make the same drive then pray that it hasn’t rained in the past day because this road is''long''and muddy. It took us 2.5 hours to drive 114 km through what seemed like fifty small villages.''Yay''Yay''Yay''Yay''About one hour on the dirt road I finally said to Cam, “I hope we are going the right way.”''My doubts started to get ahold of my mind so we pulled over so I could ask someone. We found a young Zambian on one of the coolest motorcycles I had ever seen. He told me we were heading towards Malawi, and that was good enough for me to keep going.''We never saw one single car the entire way, but we eventually made it to Malawi. I knew we made to Malawi not because of a large border post, but because I finally saw a pristine tarred road (yes, most of the roads in Malawi are tarred).''Our directions guy in the Zambian bush''The border post does exist! We quickly stamped ourselves and our car out of Zambia, and I could sleep sound knowing I didn’t have to enter or exit a country illegally.''Once you hit the tar road and stamp out of Zambia, the Malawian border post is 7 km further. The guards were all playing a''game of bao''when we rolled up and were some of the friendliest border guards I’ve ever come across. The visa fee for Americans (and many other nationalities) is now $75 paid in USD only, with bills only from 2013 or newer.''Dirt and tar draw the border between Malawi and Zambia here''To get the car in we had to pay 10,000 Malawian Kwacha for temporary import permit, payable in Kwacha only. We didn’t have any local currency so the border guard let us go to the nearest ATM to pull some out. We had Comesa''(third party insurance in Africa''), which we flashed at the police officer on duty who seemed to care about his Facebook updates more than us. We experienced no runners at the Chitipa border and absolutely no hassle. It was honestly my African border post of dreams (''unlike the border coming into Zambia'').''Even though we drove 1100 kilometers in the wrong direction, skipped Southern Malawi''and''South Luangwa, we are now on the shores of Lake Malawi sipping on cheap mojitos and kicking back on the clear blue water in the warm heart of Africa.''You May Also Like:''How Not to Overland Africa: The Day We Drove the Wrong Way''was last modified:''February 9th, 2017''by''Natasha''There is no perfect overland vehicle equipment or gear list when it comes to traveling Africa. What items work best in one overland truck may be worthless in another. However, there is no denying that what you pack in your overland vehicle is essential to the success of your trip.''I\xa0spent a lot of time researching, shopping, and traveling to reach a gear list for an overland vehicle.\xa0This is the basics of what we’re currently carrying in our truck. We’re in the midst of an overland trip from Cape Town to Nairobi. We just set out on our greatest adventure yet!''Our Overland Vehicle, or\xa0Charlie''The overland vehicle we are driving is a Toyota Land Cruiser. It was the only make and model unanimously recommended to us for travel in Africa. After all, Toyotas and Africa go hand and hand due to their prevalence and reliability. Meaning that even when things go wrong there is always a knowing mechanic within reach to help us out.''Our ride to be exact is a 1989 FJ62. \xa0The engine on board is a Toyota 2F engine (yes, it’s not the original for any gearheads out there) an inline six-cylinder famous for its torque output, and a five-speed transmission to help out on highways. This\xa0truck\xa0kicks ass. And we found it all by chance sitting on a lot we had overlooked in Cape Town. It had been sitting there for two weeks – too big and heavy on fuel for any practical Cape Town driver.''Read More: {''Being Undesirable and the Real Reason We Bought a Car in Africa''}''Overland Vehicle Equipment and Gear List''Every vehicle and traveler are unique. However, this is the gear list for an overland vehicle that works well for us. It is by no means the bible but should give a general idea of what you should bring when doing the trip yourself. We’re also amateurs compared to some veteran overlanders out there, but feel we’ve gotten a pretty good grasp on things after six months of driving around Africa.''We’re amateurs compared to some veteran overlanders out there, but feel we’ve got a pretty good grasp on things after six months of driving a truck around Africa.''Safety Precautions''This is the gear that we felt necessary to carry for our own personal safety. Some of these items are also required by law in a number of Southern and East Africa nations (''Mozambique''and Zimbabwe specifically). I would say everything in this section is a necessity for any and every overland vehicle driving across Africa.''Fire Extinguisher''– We’ll be\xa0driving overland and will be in many places where the idea of a fire brigade is non-existent. Our fire extinguisher is vital and located in the front passenger seat. This could save our vehicle and supplies from burning up in the middle of the bush! It’s also the law when carrying jerry cans on your vehicle.''Fire Extinguisher''Two Safety Triangles –''Maybe these bad boys will save our lives if we break down on the road, but long story short they are the law and will save us a fine or bribe.''Early Warning Road Safety Triangles''Safety Vest''– It may be up for debate whether this is a necessity, but run across the wrong cop and you could be facing a bribe or wasted time. We’ll air on the side of caution and carry one for $10.''Reflective Vest''Reflective Marks''– Zambia/Zimbabwe require small honeycomb stickers that are white on the front bumper and red on the rear. Never mind the fact our vehicle has permanent ones already build on the body.''DOT Reflective Red/White Tape''Full Medical Kit''– At points, we will be away from medical attention so having a good medical kit is essential. We’re carrying things like treatment for Malaria, needles, a blood stopper kit, and butterfly sutures.''First Aid Kit''. Hoping we never have to use them.''A Basic Survival Kit''– Emergency food, fire starters, and a few basic tools for the worst case scenario.''Survival Tools''Personal Water Supply –''We don’t need a lot to live, but water is essential. This is why we carry enough purified drinking water to last us multiple\xa0days and a reserve 25-liter tank in the back.''25 Litre Plastic Water Container''. When the water is questionable and we need a drink we filter everything throughout''Lifestraw Go waterbottles''.''International Sim Card:''It may not be a satellite phone, but the wireless network in Africa continues to grow. If we run into a problem it will be along a road in our truck which most major roads in Africa these days have coverage on. Assuming we are not thick in the bush we will be able to call for help.''Prepaid International SIM Card''Travel Insurance''– Medical evacuation is expensive and can be life-saving. We’re both carrying travel insurance.\xa0We both use''IMG Global''for long term travel and is what we recommend. For short term travel, we recommend going with''World Nomads.''Read More: {''World Trip Planning: Immunization Recommendations for Travel''}''Overland Vehicle Support''Spare Tires –''The roads will not be smoothly paved highways. Many of the roads will be dirt, mud, sand, gravel, and even worse crumbling roads. The potholes that plague many African roads are notorious for giving flats, carrying spare wheels is vital to get from A to B. {''Our tires''} We carry one spare wheel and a spare tire to save on weight/cost of another rim.''HiLift Jack''– Those little wimpy jacks they include with most vehicles ain’t going to cut it when your vehicle is in soft sand, mud, or a soft shoulder. The Hi-lift Jack is an invention from 1900’s and it’s an overlander’s saving grace. It can be used to recover the vehicle, replace the tire, pull apart, and clamp together. {''Hilift Jack''} We can speak for its life-saving benefits first hand after resurrecting\xa0Charlie\xa0out of the deep sands of Botswana.''Jumper Cables –''These have come in handy a few times while driving overland in Africa.''Shovel''– No secrets here! A shovel to dig us out of any sticky situations, both literally and figuratively.''Recovery Shovel''Gloves –''To protect my fingers!''Work Gloves''Recovery Strap''– In case we need that extra pull to get the vehicle rolling on the road again. Ensure that it is a heavy duty recovery strap, a heavy truck will\xa0easily snap a lightweight tow strap designed for sedans. We also have some D shackles for proper attachment.''Recovery Strap 30,000 LB capacity''Tool Kit''– At some point in our trip Charlie\xa0will give out on us and we’ll need to give him\xa0some TLC to get him\xa0back on the road. A proper toolkit will give the ability to replace fuses, tubes, basic wiring, fan belts, or cleaning the carb.''Mixed Tool Set''Jerry Cans''– Gas may be difficult at times and not having some petrol on reserve would be a serious mistake.''Jerry Fuel Can, Green''When it comes to a list of overland vehicle equipment these or an extended tank rank pretty high.''Bushbar –''Animal strikes in this part of the world are a serious hazard. Hitting an animal while in the bush could cripple the vehicle the bushbar gives us an added level of protection. It is there to keep us up and running.''Navigation –''We have a handful navigation items to keep us on course. A compass, GPS, cell phone, and multiple paper maps. A nice blend of the old and new. The two best recommendations we can give are for Tracks4Africa paper maps and an app called''Maps.me''that is free on IOS/Android.''Botswana Traveler’s Map''Spot/Fog lights''– Shouldn’t be much of a surprise that an almost 30-year-old vehicle has some weak lights. So, we’ve added some additional spots to illuminate the dark African roads.''Off Road Fog Lights''Mud Tires:''In our experience having these has been one of the best assets of the truck in Africa. They’re expensive, but considering they’re what some people spend on a fridge.''Read More: {''Travel Backpacks For Africa And Beyond''}''General Overland Vehicle Spares''Anti-freeze/coolant –''We already had one issue with the radiator on Charlie overheating.''50/50 Antifreeze – 1 Gallon''Cable Ties –''I used about dozens of these everyday\xa0at my old job, and the habit stuck. They’ve got a hundred uses and are tremendous in a pinch.''200 Self-Locking 6+8+12-Inch Nylon Cable Ties''Q20 –''I had never heard of Q20 before arriving in Africa, but it is your general all purpose oil.''WD-40 Multi-Use Product Spray''Duct''Tape –''Who could go anywhere without this stuff?''Duct Tape''Carb Cleaner –''Not everyone has a carb so it’s not necessary for all, but ensuring your engine has proper airflow is crucial.''Window Cleaner –''The attendants in Namibia and South Africa wash your windows, but since we’ve been out of those countries we’ve yet to have an attendant attend to our windows.''Glass Cleaner, 23.0 Fluid Ounce''Rags''– We aren’t big on unnecessary waste. So we use rags to clean our windows, mop up spills, and wipe the dirt off our hands.''Shop towels''Read More: {''Tips to Reduce Your Footprint and Have a More Eco-Friendly Vacation''}''Overland Truck Essential Accessories''Gin –''Now carrying this in the cabin would be negligent, but not carrying any in our\xa0vehicle would be a sad day in Africa. Okay maybe it’s not overland vehicle equipment, but nothing beats a long day on the road than a proper sundowner with a view. Of course, we’ve got plenty of tonic on hand for proper G&Ts as well.''Binoculars''– It took us a while to finally pick up a pair of binoculars, but we’re so happy we did. They serve so many purposes in Africa.''Nikon Waterproof Binocular''Bird/Game Book''– We need to know what we’re looking at. There are two main book brands distributed for identifying birds in Africa, Robert’s and Sassol. Both have their strong suits, but we prefer Robert’s because of its old school feel.''Roberts’ Birds of Southern Africa''Mosquito Repellant''– We put this on religiously. Yes, we hate it, but you know what’s worse? Mosquito bites. And worse than that?''Malaria''. The two main brands in Africa are Tabard and Peaceful Sleep, we have used both and prefer Peaceful Sleep.''Insect Repellent''Cell Phone Charger''– It should go without saying in this day and age…''Dual Port USB Car Charger''Cell Phone Holder''– We went big and got the nicest dashboard mount we could for the GPS function on our phones. We couldn’t be happier. Even after the roughest roads, the damn thing is the only thing in the vehicle to have stayed in place.''Universal Smart Phone Car Mount''Cooler:''We opted for a cooler over the fridges that would require an auxiliary battery system. We aren’t big meat eaters and the need to freeze and keep our meat just wasn’t there to justify the\xa0thousand dollars it would cost to place one in the vehicle. We went with a heavy duty cooler meant to last.''RTIC Cooler (RTIC 45 Tan)''Cash'': In Europe, Australia, and North America we rely on our\xa0credit cards for everything. However, we wouldn’t dare go anywhere semi-rural in Africa without cash on hand.''When possible pick up the local currency from ATM’s'', but we would recommend always having USD on hand, as well as the South African Rand for parts of Southern Africa.''Movies and Books'': Make sure bring lots of movies and shows on your hard drive. It’s great for those nights spent in a tent.''We stocked up on books while we were in Cape Town''as well as loaded our kindles before we left!''Music:''Download enough music for your trip. It’s going to be a long one! Or check out''Spotify''and download offline''travel playlists''while in WiFi.''Read More:''{''10 Books About Africa You Should Read Before You Go''}''Documentation''Passports''– You should carry notarized copies and have one laminated.''Driving Licenses''– Just like your passport carry multiple copies.''Vaccination Cards''– A Yellow Fever vaccination is required for Tanzania and the official document are needed as proof.''Vehicle Clearance –''Details of our vehicle height and clearance.''Letter of Permission''– Granting us power of attorney over the vehicle. After lots of frustration, we were unable to register the vehicle in our name. So, we register in a friends name and then granted us\xa0a power of attorney letter over the vehicle. The letter has been verified by a commissioner of oaths and we carry multiple copies.''Vehicle Insurance –''At the border crossing of many countries in Africa a third party insurance is compulsory.''COMESA Extension''– If you’re traveling through East Africa this can be the biggest tip! Instead of purchasing insurance at every border, or worse having to hunt it down in a neighboring town, purchasing COMESA extension of your third party insurance will save you time, money, and a ton of hassle. The COMESA, or yellow card, is valid in almost all of East Africa starting in Zambia. To get the insurance you must first purchase a policy in a participating country and then extend for the neighboring ones. The commonplace to do so in Zambia, we went with Madison General in Lusaka. I have also known overlanders who have used NICO Insurance.''Medical Insurance –''In case the worst should happen we need all the necessary documentation. We have copies printed of\xa0our medical insurance policies.''Medicine List''– List of all medicine we’re carrying''Serial Numbers''–\xa0We have all of our vehicle serial numbers listed in a document. Including make, model, VIN number, and engine number. This is for import purposes it is required by many countries to ensure we are not illegally importing products into the country.''Emergency Numbers''– This is a list of emergency numbers we compiled in the various countries we’ll be traveling through. Numbers include air-evac services since we can not rely on local hospitals for serious injury.''Police Clearance –''We’ve been asked for this twice now at the''Kazungula''border''as well as the Zim and Zam Lake Kariba border. It’s not required, but you may get asked for it in attempts for you to lose your patience and pay a bribe. They are easy to get so if you have the time I recommend going to the police station and getting the car cleared.''I’m certain that this does not cover all of our overland vehicle equipment. For instance, all of our personal items and camping gear for our truck is absent because we have respective posts on those two topics you can find''here''and''here''.''This post contains affiliate links to Amazon.com we receive a small commission on any products ordered. This allows for our site to remain in\xa0operation and providing useful content. We personally carry all of these products or an equivalent.''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''Africa Safari Guide''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Overland Vehicle Equipment and Gear List for Traveling Africa''was last modified:''March 19th, 2018''by''Cameron''When we arrived at Tongabezi we knew that for a few days our troubles associated with overland\xa0travel would all be forgotten. It was needed after a very rough time at the''Kazungula Ferry crossing''. Overlanding with your own vehicle in Africa is not always easy, to say the least.''The friendly Zambian staff greeted us with a refreshing aperitif and told us not to worry about anything and led us to our home for the next few days. Each room at Tongabezi has its own appointed valet. This personal valet watches over you and your room and makes sure you have everything you need from fresh towels to hot coffee.''The Rooms''We made our way to our room eager to relax and chill out after the long day. When we walked into our “room” that was twice the size of our old New York apartment complete bliss set in. The room felt like we stepped into heaven with couches and a massive comfortable bed overlooking the private deck on the Zambezi River. The bathroom was the best part to come, beautiful\xa0tile work and a cast iron tub\xa0already filled a bubble bath.''Forty-five minutes after our worst border crossing in Africa yet!''The Staff''I loved chatting with all the staff members at Tongabezi. From the guides to the bartenders, to the room attendants and to the chefs, every individual had their own unique story to tell.''It’s evident that Tongabezi has put a lot of care into training everyone here as service truly shines through. It’s not just the basic things like taking orders or making a bed, it was the other actions that made Tongabezi truly special.''Actions like getting surprised by a bubble bath, or remembering names and favorite drinks. All these traits became daily luxuries at Tongabezi. Many of the staff members also come from all over Zambia, meaning they are some of the friendliest people in Africa.''The Food''The food at Tongabezi is without a doubt the''best we have had in Africa.''Chef Zuwi Nawa is the head chef here and takes great pride in their cooking and it shines through the taste and presentation of the food.''There are also four chefs, two pastry chefs, and two full kitchen teams so there was no way possible for us to ever have a bad meal.For each breakfast, lunch, and dinner you are presented with a menu with countless options for each meal – and yes it was hard to choose each and every time.''The meals are not just your typical Zambian fare either (although they can be). Throughout the course of our stay, we had Moroccan, Italian, French, and even Thai inspired foods made with ingredients from Tongabezi’s own organic garden.''It left me wondering who was behind the line cooking all these amazing dishes only to find out it was some very talented Zambians who had clearly mastered the art of bringing international dishes to Zambia.''Watermelon hearts and feta, good start to lunch!''Not one dinner was the same at Tongabezi. Our first night at Tongabezi we had our most romantic dinner in four years of dating – the sampan dinner.''Let me tell you about the Sampan dinner.''The experience is unique to Tongabezi and it is truly magical. In its essence, it is an evening filled with divine\xa0food, wine, the Zambezi River, and sweet Zambian melodies.''A white linen tablecloth draped over an intimate table setting, topped with candles, surrounded by lanterns, a bottle of your favorite wine waiting for you on the river. You\xa0arrive by boat and after being served your drinks dinner begins.''All three of your courses are delivered by boat. The waitstaff paddles each dish to you and presents it with the exceptional service we came to expect at Tongabezi. After the delicious meal, the evening is finished with dessert and accompanied by the full wait staff serenading you on the river.''It was arguably one of the best experiences of our lives and a wonderful evening.''The sampan dinner is without a doubt a great choice for dinner, but even the next night atop “The Lookout” was great too! The Lookout is similar to a treehouse and is the perfect location to chill out next to the river.''This is where we shared breakfast, lunch, and dinner on more than a few occasions. It may not be a floating dinner on the river, but it is overlooking the river and that is the second best thing. Added bonus, no risk of falling in the river too.''Eco-Friendly''Perhaps one of the main reasons we were so excited to stay at Tongabezi was because of its various\xa0accolades. The lodge has been named one of the top 100 hotels in the world by''Travel and Leisure''and also considered one of the top five in all of Africa. Tongabezi is definitely the number one eco lodge in Zambia and we wanted to check out how it runs ourselves.''They have a still and sparkling bottling system and filtration that saves 20,000 plastic water bottles a year,''which makes my anti-plastic mind incredibly happy''.''Wood supplies come from the Copper belt in Zambia and are taken from sustainable forests so even having a sundowner around a fire at Tongabezi is good for the planet.All the toiletry and cleaning products are 100% biodegradable and even the staff uniforms are repeatedly recycled.''They also have Sindabezi Island an''eco-friendly haven'', but more on that later.''The Activities''Besides eating and basking in African luxury, there are an endless amount of activities to do at Tongabezi. After we relaxed with a few sundowners our first night we discussed with the Tongabezi team what we were going to be doing the next few days.''The amount on offer is endless such as trips to the infamous Devils Pool, a microlight over Victoria Falls, canoeing and fishing on the Zambezi. We had a tough time deciding what to do, but eventually decided that we would like to go canoeing, enjoy a few coffees on the river for sunrise, and go fishing.''We hadn’t been canoeing in Africa yet so this was a particular highlight for Cameron and I. Albeit we were a bit nervous of the hippos, but we had an excellent guide to make sure we were safe. Canoeing on the Zambezi is unlike any other experience as we were able to get up close to birdlife without scaring them away with a high powered motor.''Capt. Ronald took us out on a sunrise boat cruise which is offered every morning. After traveling Africa for a few months we know that the best time to see wildlife is early morning or late afternoon when the sun is less intense. On the boat cruise, we saw plenty of hippos, crocs, and a plethora of birds (we’ve recently become birders).''Cameron decided to take the afternoon and go fishing, while I decided I had enough fishing for tiger fish and ventured into something different.''The School''Right next to Tongabezi is Tujatane School. Tujatane means “Let us all hold hands together” in Tonga. \xa0Tujatane was started by Vanessa, one of the owners of Tongabzi, in 1996. I decided to venture over here while Cam was having his fishing time and was instantly blown away by the sheer size of the school.''Tujatane started with only 15 children, and they now have over 200 kids attending school. Most of the kids come from nearby villages or are children of the Tongabezi staff members.''The school has nine classrooms, two offices, a library, a kitchen, an amphitheater, a computer room, a reading room, and a music room. Many of the kids were in music class when I visited so I went to hear them sing and dance, which was absolutely incredible. The kids are extremely talented and even take their musical skills to\xa0a competition level!''I couldn’t believe that such a school came to be from Tongabezi and the hard work of Vanessa. It was really great to see the children learning and knowing that they were given the chance for a brighter future.''The school is completely funded by donations and generous sponsors.''Check out their site here!''Her son went to Tujatane and is now getting his Masters Degree!''Sindabezi Island''It eventually came time to leave Tongabezi. Thankfully we were just headed to Sindabezi Island. Sindabezi Island is a self-sufficient eco-lodge in the middle of the Zambezi. Sindabezi operates through Tongabezi, but is a separate lodge with five rooms and separate staff.''Sindabezi has been named one of the top ten eco-lodges in Africa by Fodor’s, and since we have been aiming to be more eco-friendly we were ecstatic to travel here.''Sindabezi is a bit more seclusive than Tongabezi. You are literally on an island right in between Zimbabwe and Zambia, with no one around but the hippos.''There are still a few staff members and a wonderful chef cooking up all that food I’ve already talked so much about. There are only five open thatched rooms on the island, but since it was low season, we were the only ones occupying Sindabezi Island. So essentially we were the King and Queen of Sindabezi Island for a night.''The island is entirely solar powered, there is no plastic, and all the cooking is done with gas. Birdlife is abundant on the island and given the location crocs and hippos sometimes call the place home.''The only way to arrive on the island is by boat from Tongabezi, which offered us another great chance to see the wildlife from the water.''The same activities that are offered at Tongabezi are still on offer at Sindabezi. Since we had already been playing on the Zambezi before, we decided to take a break and enjoy our little island that we had all to ourselves.''When else can you declare yourself the king of an island (unless you’re Tom Hanks in Castaway). We spent the afternoon relishing in nature, bird-watching, and playing board games with the staff. We may have even had a little private time to fly our drone too.''We’ll definitely be dreaming about the day we return to Tongabezi for the rest of our lives. It’s not only a little slice of Zambian paradise but also just pure African bliss.''General Info for Tongabezi and Zambia''If you coming from the Kazungula Border Post. Tongabezi is about a 30-minute drive away.''Tongabezi is about a 45-minute drive to Livingstone. From there it is another 15 minutes to the Vic Falls border.''After we left Tongabezi we made our way towards Zimbabwe via Vic Falls. Unlike the Zambia/Botswana border, we had a relatively pain free experience entering Zimbabwe.''One day visas into Zimbabwe are available at Vic Falls.''The Zambian side of Vic Falls is easily accessible from Tongabezi. It’s worth noting that the Zambian side of the falls is where you can experience the famous Devils Pool; however, the best views of the falls are from the Zimbabwean side.''Tongabezi isn’t a budget destination, but considering all that goes into running the eco-lodge the cost comes for good reason.\xa0Prices start at $655 per person per night and include\xa0all meals, alcohol, and most activities.''Check out their website''to see their current specials!''Plan Your Trip to Tongabezi''Check out the rates''for Tongabezi''here!''Flights to Zambia:''Travelocity''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Car Rental in Zambia:''We decided to go ahead and\xa0buy a car in Africa. If you want to drive around Africa without the commitment renting a car in South Africa with''Auto Europe''is a great starting point.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''Tongabezi Review: One of the Best Lodges in the World''was last modified:''August 12th, 2017''by''Natasha''We debated about traveling to Zimbabwe on our''overland trip through Africa''. We had heard rumors of fuel shortages, cash restrictions, power cutoffs, and harsh police roadblocks.''However, this is Africa, and we decided it was on our route and could not be missed.''We had received\xa0word of hour-long queues at the ATM’s and bank goers only being able to withdraw $60 at a time. So, before we crossed the Vic Falls Border we stopped in\xa0Livingstone, Zambia and made sure we had more than enough cash to get us around Zimbabwe.''Zimbabwe’s currency has completely collapsed, so they have turned toward the\xa0US Dollar as their reserve currency.''We entered Zimbabwe\xa0expecting another laborious\xa0border crossing after our''fun time at the Kazungula Ferry''. However, the border going into Vic Falls was smooth sailing. The Zimbabweans were friendly and accommodating and not one person hassled us.''The friendly attitude continued, everywhere we went we were met with smiles,''people were warm,''and we felt safe.''We spent time talking with many locals while traveling in Zimbabwe, and beneath the\xa0smiles, there is\xa0something much more.''That is their current sitting President Robert Mugabe. In case you’ve missed the news since 1987\xa0Mugabe\xa0has been\xa0one of those African dictators in power in Zimbabwe. Old “Bob” is 92 years old and just about everyone is praying he will kick the bucket soon.''Zimbabwe was once a prosperous country. Before the millennia it\xa0was considered one of the most stable in Africa, and was dubbed “The bread basket of Africa.” However, Mugabe decided to nationalize everything. He took away the farms from the white Zimbabweans and gave out that land to anyone and everyone. These new “farmers” didn’t know what they were doing, and soon enough Zimbabwe was importing everything from apples to maize. This and a''slew of other things''led the economy to collapse.''Fast forward 16 years and Zimbabwe tourism is the worst it’s been in years. Foreigners hear “Zimbabwe” on the news and everyone thinks about instability and danger. We too, hear\xa0mixed\xa0things, but we are not\xa0going to let that stop us from forming our own opinion.''While we never once felt in danger in Zimbabwe there are aspects that will make holiday goers think twice about travel in Zimbabwe.''Here are some of the main issues that I’ve gathered from an outsiders perspective, and how we worked our way around them to enjoy our time in the stunning country.''Travel in Zimbabwe: The Issues''Cash Shortages''There is a shortage of USD in the country. Zimbabwe went through a period of''extreme hyperinflation''.''I read on a sign at Vic Falls that at one time if you had enough gold shillings to make up $1 you would be richer than Bill Gates (US$1 was equivalent to Z$2,621,984,228).''Zimbabwe has switched to the US Dollar since there is no stable currency. Due to cash shortages, they have begun printing their own “bond” notes. The notes\xa0have been pegged 1:1 with the US Dollar, but their first day on the market they dropped 30% due to uncertainty with the reserve bank and an early release from a corrupt printer.''The other main form of currency\xa0we saw in Zim were $1 bills. Except these dollar bills\xa0were the worst we have ever seen in our lives. There used to be a crisp photo of George Washington\xa0on those\xa0dollars, but now they look like they are held together by dirt, tape, and hope. It’s all Zimbabweans can get their hands on, and it is sad. I always tried to pay with exact cash and I refused to take the bond notes or the wannabe dollars back since they would be useless outside of Zim.''We were able to avoid the cash uncertainties and brought in our own USD\xa0from Zambia and Botswana.''Fuel Shortages''We filled up right before we entered Zim. Thank god we did cause because once we crossed the border petrol prices soared. We were able to get gas in Vic Falls for the grand total of $1.39 per Liter – the highest we’ve paid anywhere in Africa and double what it costs in the states right now.''We had\xa0seventeen hours of driving ahead of us\xa0on our way to''Musango Island Camp and around Lake Kariba''. We took the beautiful back roads to avoid police roadblocks. This was a little shorter on time but was all dirt roads. We were expecting to top up in a small town called Binga. When we got to town the gas stations there only had diesel and were out of petrol “until who knows when.”''Thankfully we had enough to make it to our destination but didn’t know how we were going to continue. Once we were at Musango we had to have someone actually bring us their extra petrol over on a boat so that we could leave. That fuel top up cost us a whopping $120 for 60 Liters. My jaw almost dropped – how on earth can people afford this fuel?''Filling up in Kariba''I suppose we were spoiled with the cheap fuel prices in the rest of Southern Africa, and I can’t lie and say I didn’t want to run away from the country after paying those fuel prices. Our last top up was in Kariba, where the petrol cost us $1.30 per liter again – cash only. We only got back into Zambia where the fuel prices are''slightly''less. (Zim and Zam – you’re killing us!)''Now, we are\xa0foreigners and struggle\xa0to pay the fuel\xa0prices. How on earth are the Zimbabweans able to purchase fuel? With a 96% unemployment rate, we have to assume that they are not.''The Unemployment Rate''Yes, you read that right. The unemployment rate in Zimbabwe is 96%. Tourism has been down, so even many of the lodges and guide jobs have gone down the toilet. Despite the high unemployment rate the people are still friendly, kind, and hopeful.''I will never get over that given their hardship, the vast majority of the population is still able to smile and carry on. It makes concepts like depression in the Western world a hard pill to swallow.''Police Roadblocks''We heard stories of “fines” for not having lights in glovebox…yea. It is natural when police officers are uncertain that they will be paid and then they turn towards\xa0bribery.''This is Africa.''When I asked around about the police roadblocks the general consensus I got was that the police actually hassle the locals, not the foreigners. Guess they don’t want to ruin what little tourism they have right now.''We drove\xa0only on back roads and managed to see only one police roadblock in Zimbabwe. Not only did we avoid the\xa0roadblocks, but we quite possibly had the 20 best hours of driving in Africa. We got a glimpse into the rural African village life that so few tourists see. The greatest pleasure in Zim came from the adventure that ensued.''We decided to take precautions for everywhere in Africa\xa0and equipped our vehicle with a''fire extinguisher, two triangles, a reflective vest'', and even a couple cans of coca-cola. Thankfully,''like in Mozambique,''we had no issues with this. We were stopped once at a police roadblock when we were leaving the country. The policeman was very polite. He asked us if we were having a nice\xa0holiday and he checked Cameron’s license before waving us onward.''Final Thoughts on Traveling in Zimbabwe''Most people do travel to Zimbabwe on their vacation in Africa –''but only to Victoria Falls.''While I enjoyed Victoria Falls and found it to be one of the most beautiful sights in the world, it didn’t ever really feel like Zimbabwe. If you are only\xa0visiting Vic Falls it’s unlikely that you will see the mess that Zimbabwe is going through as it’s a top tourist destination in Africa.''I am so happy that we were able to drive around the country and see more of the rural village life and delve a little deeper into life there. We visited Zimbabwe just after the rains had\xa0arrived\xa0and I couldn’t believe how beautiful the green rolling hills were.''I was blown away before we even got to the Lake Kariba – the largest man-made lake in the world. Now, Lake Kariba truly was divine with great wildlife. I can see why Zimbabwe once dominated the African tourism sector as the locals were kind, wildlife was grand, and the landscapes were stifling.''If it weren’t for the insanely high fuel prices and unpredictable shortages it would have been very hard for us to ever leave Zim. I know one day we will return for I really feel we didn’t get to see the full flavor of the country. I hope that when that day comes the old Zimbabwe is back and times are well again.''For Your Info:''Visas for Americans traveling to Zimbabwe cost $30 USD payable in cash at the border. Visas are good for 30 days. Americans have the cheapest visas while the Canadians and Brits have it the worst at $75 and $55 respectively.''More info on visas here.''If self-driving Zimbabwe expect to pay a road tax fee ($30), third party insurance ($30), and a road access fee ($10). No bribery was experienced. Try to get COMESA in Livingstone if you are driving throughout Africa.''If you’re not much of a driver, but still want to see Zimbabwe check out some of these''Zimbabwe tours.''Fuel should be available at any border town and major city. We paid by credit card at Vic Falls but it was cash only in Kariba.''Having enough USD before you enter is sure to make life easier. If coming from Livingstone there is a Barclays Bank in town that is able to change cash for you. If coming into Kariba, we found an ATM in Siavonga on Lake Kariba (Zambian side). The ATM’s in Zambia dispense Kwacha, so you will have to change that into USD before you enter. I would be hesitant to run out of USD anywhere in Zimbabwe besides Vic Falls, Harare, and Bulawayo.''The three main languages in Zim are\xa0English, Shona, and Ndebele. You will be able to get by fine with English in Zimbabwe.''We found the town of Vic Falls to be extremely expensive. From the produce to the coffee, and even the entrance fee into the Falls ($30) may be some of the highest prices we’ve seen in Africa.''The local meal is''sadza''and is a combination of maize, relish, and meat and it is delicious!''Read More:''A Christmas Safari at Musango Safari Camp in Zimbabwe''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: The Ultimate Guide''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''The Only Hwange National Park Guide You Will Need''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''Zimbabwe’s Mana Pools National Park: African Safari Diary #2''July 30, 2017''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''July 29, 2017''The Only Hwange National Park Guide You Will Need''July 24, 2017''What’s the Deal with Travel in Zimbabwe?''was last modified:''November 19th, 2017''by''Natasha''There really isn’t anything quite like traveling around Africa. From the interesting cultures, to the vast wildlife, to the mesmerizing landscapes traveling Africa is sure to captivate your heart. I’m already crying tears of sadness for the day I have to leave this wonderful continent, but getting used to traveling Africa sure hasn’t been a walk in the park. Here are 20 Africa travel tips to help you prepare for your trip.''Traveling to Africa? Here are a few Africa travel tips''Be prepared for people everywhere''Instead of millions of cars on the road in Africa, you’ll find people. Unless we are on a rural African road there are almost always people walking on the side. Actually no,''scratch that''– the more rural we get the more people we find. I usually hate long distances and driving, but while''driving parts of Africa''I don’t really mind. The views out the window are always entertaining and we get lots of waves (and lots of stares).''Be prepared for the “African stare”''That being said…depending on your skin color and how rural you get in Africa you’re probably going to get a couple “African stares” as I like to call them. Some of the locals (and especially children) may have never seen a white/Asian/brown person before – so you may be very interesting to them.''Don’t think you’re off the hook if you’re black either, the Africans can spot a foreigner from a mile away. We recently were driving in a remote village in Zambia and pulled over to take a break, when along came a boy on his bike. He just stopped on the bike and stared…stared…stared… for about five minutes until we had to tell him goodbye and drove off.\xa0It’s all harmless and in good nature, just wave and show those pearly whites.''Be prepared for things to just not work''Is the electricity out? Did the water stop running? Does something just not make any sense to you at all?''Well TIA.''Or “This is Africa,” otherwise meaning “Well this is Africa, what do you expect?” You will see many things in Africa, sometimes they will frustrate you and other times they will make you laugh. Just get ready for the ride when traveling through Africa.''And this post is about to give us a “hart atack”''A couple months ago this post popped up in a''Mozambique travel group''we are members of. We instantly bust out laughing and knew that something like this could only happen in Africa. In case it’s hard to see the tile layer laid the tiles on upside down. I truly don’t believe this Mozambican meant to fail at his job on purpose, I just believe he genuinely thought something like this.''“Well, this is the correct side for non-slip floors.” Which makes total sense in his mind and it really is now a non-stick floor. However to westerners would quite literally have a heart attack if they saw this.''“This is Africa.”''Be prepared for wireless nights''Besides Antarctica, Africa has been the last continent to catch on to the whole internet thing. South Africa and''Morocco''are among the top rated for internet speeds and coming from the United States where we are fortunate to have amazing internet, we were still less than impressed in both. Just get excited when the “free WiFi” can load a page, and''pull out a book about Africa''to keep yourself entertained while you’re waiting.''If you want to be sure you have the internet, I would recommend picking up a sim card in each country and load it with data or get a portable WiFi stick. However, even with a sim card the connection only works if you are in a city or town. It’s okay, though – the world got on just fine without the internet for thousands of years. I touch more on the''internet in Africa here.''There’s no WiFi in the bush''Be prepared for beautiful people''Most of the African people are warm, friendly, and hospitable''. We often found that they are just as interested as us as we are in them. If i can give you just one Africa travel tip it would be to accept the curiosity and be kind back.''The wonderful ladies of Mozambique''Be prepared for fantastic star viewings''There aren’t many big cities dotted along the continent so grab a snack, a blanket and prepare yourself for some amazing night skies.''starry night in Mozambique''Be prepared for some uninspiring food''French, Italian, Thai, Japanese are all cultures revered for their fabulous cuisine. Not the same for most of Africa. Many Africans rely on maize, or corn meal, to keep them full and satisfied.''Maize is cheap, filling, and can be eaten with just about any meat or fish dish. It is the staple in many African countries, but to Westerners, the food may not be the tastiest.''There are a few exceptions, but in general, we haven’t found the local food anything to write home about in the countries we have been.''Moroccan cuisine''and some of the coastal dishes such as peri-peri on the coasts of East Africa deserve some recognition.''Having a delicious meal with the Berbers in Morocco''Be prepared to throw dietary restrictions out the window''Are you on a diet? Well, that diet may be hard to keep up with in Africa. While I do believe it’s possible to be a vegetarian when traveling Africa it will certainly make your dinner choices tougher. Like I said many dishes in Africa are based off maize meal sometimes accompanied by a heaping portion of meat.''Unless you’re in a big city, salads, smoothies, and other light options are impossible to come by. Also – it’s worth noting that chicken is not considered a meat in parts of Africa, so be sure to specify if you are a vegetarian.''Be prepared for attempted bribery''You’re likely not to experience this problem unless you are driving; however, it’s worth noting that the police in countries like Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Zambia, and''Tanzania''are notorious for trying to get bribes out of locals and travelers alike. It’s also worth noting that we’ve been in Africa just over eight months now and have never once had to pay a bribe (although we did hand over a Coke once). Patience is key when dealing with African police.''Be prepared for the unexpected''Things don’t always go according to plan, so always be prepared for spontaneous decision making. After two days of driving''1100 kilometers in Zambia''we realized we had gone down the wrong road after following a map (yes, 1100 km’s).''A quick brainstorm and gin and tonic later, we were already re-routing the next few weeks.''Yay''Be prepared for bright colors''From Morocco to Malawi I just can’t get over how vibrant Africa is. It’s hard to have a bad day when items, wildlife, landscapes, and people are so dazzling.''Be prepared to feel out of your element, guilty, and\xa0uncertain''Traveling around the developing nations in Africa can be hard – especially if you come from the west. Whether you’re rich or not back home, in countries like Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia and many more you have money (you are traveling after all).\xa0You may see many people and communities with nothing and it’s easy to feel guilty. It truly makes you feel just how fortunate you are. However tempting it may be I never recommend giving out money (or candy to children), as it may just encourage begging. If you want to give back consider bringing clothes, pencils, bread or anything truly useful to people.''Be prepared for happy children''I’ve yet to see an unhappy child in Africa. I’m not saying that there aren’t unhappy kids in Africa, but the children I’ve come across in the villages, on the beaches, on the streets are always smiling, laughing, and full of joy. Okay, besides the one time in a small village where I made a little girl cry by looking at her (I found out later I was the first white person she had seen). They mostly seem to get a kick out of any foreigner around! My favorite thing to do is make funny faces at them and they’re happy to reciprocate.''Be prepared to be the minority''Black, white, purple, man, woman, it – you name it if you’re a foreigner traveling in a country you’re going to be in the minority. Don’t be scared, just embrace it!''Be prepared for things you’ve never seen before''I’ve seen elephants taking a mud bath in Zimbabwe,''cheetahs sprint across the Namib desert'', and even a Zebra give birth in''South Luangwa National Park''. From the wildlife to the people, to the landscapes prepare yourself for spectacular sights.''Be prepared for amazing wildlife''It’s tough to talk about Africa and not mention the wildlife''. If you’re traveling all the way to someplace in Africa I would highly recommend going on at least one safari (''Kruger is great for your first time'').''You will be amazed at what you can see on the African plains with just one day – Lions, Zebra, Giraffe – Oh my!''Be prepared for driving, and driving, and driving''Whether you are self-driving'', on an overland tour, or taking public transport the distances between points are huge! After a while of traveling the continent, you might get used to it. This is why we''always wear comfy clothes''for long days in the car.''I know it’s gotten bad when I think a five-hour drive is short. I love to look out the window at the landscapes and people passing. If that’s not your thing be sure to download some podcasts,''movies about Africa'', good music, or''books about Africa to keep you entertained.''Be prepared for Mozzies''I’m certain you have heard of Malaria.''It’s''really''serious in Africa.''The disease is spread by infected mosquitos. Symptoms start like the flu and gradually worsen, and can even cause death.''Neither of us has gotten malaria (yet), but just about every African we’ve met has and they describe it as a step above hell. There are a lot of mozzies in Africa especially if you are by water. Cover up, buy insect repellent, and consider taking prophylaxis.''Be prepared for daytime driving in Africa.''We haven’t visited one country in Africa where it is safe to drive at night. In South Africa it was because of crime, in Botswana and Mozambique, it was because if there isn’t livestock on the roads it’s elephants, in Lesotho, it is because the roads are pitch black and mountainous.''Driving at night in Africa is not a smart idea, there are people on the roads, hardly ever street lights and don’t forget about the wildlife. For us, if it means starting our journey at 5 am we will do it to avoid night driving. Just not worth the risks!''Be prepared to die''Okay, not really! I’m just saying that from the terrible roads to the health precautions,''to the animals'', traveling around Africa can be a dangerous experience. It’s especially important to make smart choices and prepare yourself fully for traveling on the most undeveloped continent. With a little planning and common sense, you will have a wonderful and memorable time in Africa!''Want to see more of Africa?''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Overland Tour in Africa:''Traveling Africa on your own can be daunting to many travelers. However, there is no need to fear with overland tour companies who will show the ropes and a great time. You can''check out some of them here''to compare the different companies and possibly score a discount.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Look the Part:''Our favorite safari clothes.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa, and this one in''Eastern Africa.''Read Next:''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''These 10 Lodges are Supporting Ecotourism in Africa''Here Are The Charities In Africa We Support''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''20 Africa Travel Tips to Help You Prepare for an Epic Trip''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''The top destination for a safari in Africa is arguably the Okavango Delta in Botswana. The delta is a massive inland floodplain that fans out across Northwestern Botswana. The massive swath of earth that is the Okavango Delta is a mix\xa0of land, marsh, water, and sand. Landscapes here change in meters, not hundreds of kilometers.''Over one-third of the Delta is occupied by the Moremi Game\xa0Reserve. The\xa0stretch of land is home to one of the densest animal populations in Africa and famous for the encounters that ensue.''While the water element of the Delta is an\xa0expansive body of crystal clear water that snakes through high reeds. Visitors are fortunate enough to take in the tranquility in a mokoro,''a dugout wooden canoe,''while lily pads drift across the water in the breeze. The Delta is truly untouched pristine wilderness in the heart of Africa.''In comparison to the rest of Botswana, the Okavango Delta is a stark contrast. As Botswana is dominated by the even more immense Kalahari Desert. It’s no secret that Botswana is one of the''top destinations in the world''for spotting wildlife.\xa0When we began making a list of places we wanted to see in Africa the Okavango Delta was cemented at the top. It is where countless nature documentaries are filmed, and a bastion for wildlife research.''Stunning sunset in the wild''Read More:''An Okavango Delta Safari Experience''was last modified:''April 29th, 2017''by''Natasha''I came to Africa excited for the''culture, the wildlife, and the landscapes''. Now, I’m just trying not go broke. Don’t get me wrong I’m still excited about traveling the continent, but Africa is far from a cheap holiday destination. For a continent filled with developing nations, one would think the cost of traveling Africa would be relatively cheap. My god that couldn’t be further from the truth. Self-driving Africa has single handily been our most expensive endeavor yet and that is including our trip around Western Europe and Australia. However, it’s always been a dream of mine so I knew that it had to be done. Here is where all our money is going and why we are finding Africa so expensive.''The Basic Costs of Traveling Africa''To and from''As with most destinations, the cost of the flight to Africa is going to be a big expense. Some of the main transport hubs are Johannesburg and Cape Town for southern Africa,''Nairobi''and Dar Es Salaam for east Africa, Dakar and Lagos for West Africa, and Casablanca and Cairo for Northern Africa. No matter which country you will be traveling to your international flight will most likely be into one of those major cities.''We were lucky and were''already in Europe''when we found a flight from Istanbul to Johannesburg (''with a layover in the Seychelles'') for $450. If had we been somewhere not so central like the United States or Australia the cost could have been much more. Unfortunately, unless you want to haul it on a cargo ferry the flight getting into Africa is unavoidable.''Visas''Most countries in Africa require visitors to obtain a visa before entering – and an expensive one at that. The visa fee for''Mozambique''and''Tanzania''is $50 ($100 for Americans), $75 for a Malawian visa, and for Zambia it is a''whopping $80 fee''for a double entry for Americans. If you are going to just one country, a one-time visa fee may not seem so bad, but when''you are overlanding''all the visa fees really add up. Most of these visas also take up an entire page in your passport too…The one silver lining is that depending on your nationality most of Southern Africa does\xa0not require a visa to enter. We never opened our wallet for a visa in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Botswana.''Vaccines''Depending on where you are going in Africa you will need some jabs to stay healthy. Getting up to date on your''tetanus, hepatitis, and typhoid is recommended''before landing in Africa. Depending on where you are coming from you may even be required to have certain shots. If you’re from the US getting all of these shots are not a cheap trip to the doctors (especially for yellow fever). My advice would be to wait until you get to Africa to get your''shots and malaria meds.''We ended up going to a South African clinic the day after we landed and got a round of booster shots, yellow fever shot, and a years supply of malaria medicine for $50 USD. I know the prices are similar for many other African countries as well. The people of Africa deal with these life-threatening diseases on a daily basis so the healthcare has to be affordable. Do your research for clinics before landing, but waiting until you get out of your home country could save you big.''Insider Tip:''Do your research thoroughly on the country you are going to and what time of year you are going. I met people who were visiting Cape Town and their American doctors convinced them they needed malaria medicines''(no malaria in Cape Town).''We also met an Australian family whose doctor had suggested they buy $1000 worth of Malaria medicine to visit''Kruger in the dry season''. Just because it is Africa doesn’t mean that malaria is a risk everywhere. Most of South Africa and Namibia are malaria free, and everything depends on if you are traveling during the rainy season or not. We personally didn’t take pills in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, and in Southern Mozambique (in the dry season).''Getting Around Africa''Transport''So you’ve landed somewhere in Africa, but now you have to actually get around. Public transport in Africa is less than mediocre and unless you are really looking for adventure it isn’t ideal. The minibusses in each country will get you to certain points, but not the tourist hotspots of Africa and certainly not to a doorstep of a hostel or hotel.''Besides public transport your options are to fly from point to point in Africa, this is easily the most expensive option. Next, you can rent a car, take an overland safari, or buy a car (''like us!''). Most people take the overland option as it is the easiest and most hassle-free option there is. Overlanders don’t have to think about much in terms of navigation, driving, or planning. Overlanding trips aren’t cheap, though. There are basic camping overland trips and companies like''Absolute Africa''and''Dragoman''offer these. If your budget is a bit more then there are overland safaris like that are a bit more luxurious and don’t require camping.''We rented a car through Mozambique, Lesotho, and Swaziland but after two months we knew that anywhere north of South Africa would require a 4×4. Four-wheel drive vehicles cost''at least''$100 a day to rent – OUCH. We ended up getting a great deal on a Land Cruiser in Cape Town to get us around the continent. This option took a huge hit on the bank, but we are hoping to sell it and get some money back at the end of this trip.''Read the full story here.''(UPDATE:''We did sell the car in Africa and made our money back!)''The good news is that fuel is relatively inexpensive in southern Africa and gradually creeps its way up in price around Zimbabwe and Zambia. Zimbabwe, Zambia, and Malawi nearly killed us on fuel prices. At $1.30/liter it has me wondering how anyone local can reasonably afford this. Apparently about six months ago there was a massive fuel price hike, but naturally, incomes in these countries stayed the same.''Infrastructure''Most of Africa is lacking proper infrastructure like what you get in many western cities. Outside of the big cities, we are usually happy to just be driving on a paved road and see a gas station.''Accommodation''The prices of''accommodation across Africa''are some of the highest we’ve ever seen…in the world! This goes back to the lack of infrastructure. To run a proper hotel, guesthouse, or lodge there must be basic things like access to water and electricity. Not so easy in Africa outside the capital cities. Five star Afri-chic lodges can run up in the range of $1400 a night. This is crazy expensive, but when I think what it took to build a self-sufficient lodge in the middle of nowhere Africa, maintain it, staff it, and do all the other things necessary for a lodge to run I can start to see where the money goes. Plus these fancy lodges include your safari and activities.''But forget about just the lodges. Even a basic shabby hotel in a capital city like Maputo will run you about $100/night. Camping isn’t the cheapest either. We pay anywhere between $10-$30 per person per night to CAMP in Africa (and some of these campsites don’t even have a toilet). When I get my wallet out to pay for these campsites I cringe thinking about the nice guesthouses with fast WiFi we pay for in Eastern Europe for $25 total a night. It all comes down to options and lack of them. If you don’t want to pay $30 for the campsite then good luck finding a cheaper one elsewhere.''From 5-star in Zambia…''To camping in Zimbabwe…''The Fun in Africa''Game drives, bush walks, boat cruises…all the activities that you have come to Africa for come at a price…and a steep one at that. Most activities involving wildlife come with an experienced and trained guide; you didn’t think those would be cheap, did you? If you are staying at lodges then chances are your guide fees will be included in the price, but if you are traveling on your own and want a guide one will have to be paid for separately.''Even if you don’t want a guide to go on safari some of the park fees just to enter a national park in Africa are jaw dropping. For instance, a day in''the infamous Serengeti''will cost you $74\xa0per person per day, for camping $30\xa0per tent per day and $150\xa0per vehicle per day. If you want to go to''Ngorongoro Crater''yourself that’s $300. Those gorillas that are seen in Virunga National Park, well I hope you have $1500 to pay for a daily permit in Rwanda (and only for an hour of gorilla time).''Insider Tip:''We found great value for''national parks in Namibia.''Entrance to Etosha National Park is only 80 NAD per day and you can see the big five there! Out of all the countries, we have visited in Africa so far''South Africa''and''Namibia''are the most affordable places to travel. If you want to go''gorilla trekking go in Uganda''or the DRC where it is cheaper.''Low Density/High Cost''Countries like Botswana and Zambia operate on a high-cost low-density model. If you want to see the Okavango Delta and the fabulous wildlife there then be prepared to pay a pretty penny to do it properly. The governments enforce the high costs so that fewer people come and their beautiful country doesn’t end up like Disney Land. I can’t hate on them for this, but it certainly doesn’t make traveling on a budget any easier.''The Food in Africa''In Thailand, the local food is a delicious plate of $1 Pad Thai or some spicy Tom Yum Soup. In Africa, the local foods are much much… well, let’s just say uninspiring. A staggering amount of Africans rely on maize for their breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Maize is a corn meal that is great for keeping people full for hours and is cheap to produce and buy. I’ve talked to many Africans and absolutely love maize. I actually think that sadza,\xa0nshima, and ugali are quite good…every once in awhile.''To many foreigners, the standard African fare may not be the tastiest in the world. Western food is going to cost a bit more to get since it is a specialized cuisine. Outside of South Africa and parts of Namibia, we pay more to have the food that we are used to. The exception we found to this was in Mozambique;''the local seafood there is excellent and cheap!''Crayfish and Matapa in Mozambique''Traveling Africa has many challenges and dealing with the high cost is definitely one of them. However, despite talking about the high costs of food, gas, or always saying to each other “we just paid how much for that piece of shit campsite?” We still realize all the beauty we have seen here that we can’t get anywhere else in the world. It’s going to be difficult to ever leave.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to Africa:''Skyscanner''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''23 Portraits of Happiness From Around Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Why is Traveling Africa So Expensive?''was last modified:''April 8th, 2018''by''Natasha''Looking for the best hotels in Cape Town? Here are some of the best of the best in one of our favorite cities in the world. After all, in a city with hundreds of places to stay there has to be somewhere that’s perfect to take in the views of Table Mountain for everyone. Finding the perfect luxury hotel could be a struggle, but after visiting all of the hotels below we can safely say we know which are the best of the best. We’re also not influenced by marketing budgets like CNtraveler or Forbes, hence the reason our top picks won’t be found on their lists.''This list of the best hotels in Cape Town is\xa0sure to get you excited for an\xa0upcoming trip to The Mother City.''The Best Hotels In Cape Town''The Tintswalo Atlantic – Best Overall Hotel in Cape Town''Due to its charm, class, level of service, intimacy, character, and stunning location, The Tintswalo Atlantic takes our top accolade. We loved our room so much we never left the except for a quick dip in the heated pool and to have dinner. With only eight individually designed rooms the hotel is charming and intimate. Rooms have features such as tubs with views over the bay and a wood stove for when the winter winds blow. Evenings at the Tinstwalo feel like a dream with sunsets over in Hout Bay, bubbles, plush\xa0bathrobes, and some evening canapés. To give it that final boost to the top it’s the only accommodation in Cape Town that is located inside Table Mountain National Park, how fitting. In the end, though, what separated the Tintswalo from the other hotels on this list is the intimacy.''Check Prices Now!''Cape Grace – Best in Class Hotel in Cape Town''The interiors in the Cape Grace are decadent and stylish making it a clear pick for our best hotels in Cape Town. The rooms are filled with character and unique design elements that hail to the history\xa0of Cape Town. Design elements include Cape-Dutch antiques such as white and blue pottery, striped wallpaper, and the chandeliers with dangling tea cups. The food, staff, and amenities on offer at the Cape Grace are all top class and sure to wow guests. The pampering doesn’t\xa0stop there with an in-house spa featuring African-inspired treatments.''Check Prices Here!''Belmond Mount Nelson Hotel\xa0– Best\xa0Institution Hotel in Cape Town''Since this hotel dates back to 1899, it’s no surprise that we selected it as the best institution in Cape Town. Originally built by a wealthy shipping magnate to host European aristocrats. It hotel is full of colonial institutional past with canopied four post beds and afternoon high tea being a serious affair. Visitors can take a stroll through the beautiful nine acres of private gardens. The grounds feature lovely\xa0fountains, pools, and flowers. The hotel also plays host to all manner of celebrities who frequent Cape Town.''Check Prices Here!''The Capital Mirage – Best Business Hotel in Cape Town''The Capital Mirage is one of the newest hotels in Cape Town. The modern digs are studio apartments and\xa0perfect for business travelers. The studio apartment allows for a more like home for those needing\xa0to stay a week or more. Amenities like''real''high-speed internet (''our tests got 26mbps''), washer and dryer, full kitchen, multiple restaurants on site, and a TV that connects to your laptop set it apart from other hotels. When finished with the day guests can head to the roof where The Vue bar offers stunning views of Table Mountain and a rooftop pool. In the digital age, this is the hotel that checks off all the best hotel boxes. They also get bonus points for bringing us room service sushi at a good price.''Check Prices Here!''The One&Only – Best For\xa0Luxury Hotel in Cape Town''After entrance to the\xa0One&Only, you’ll find yourself blown away by the massive 40ft tall providing stunning views of Table Mountain from the cavernous reception. The name of the\xa0hotel is rather suiting, as it is the one in Cape Town. The building is advertised as the best address in Cape Town and it’s arguably so. With hi-tech rooms that are lavish and provide magnificent views. Everything about the One&Only is over-stated luxury\xa0from the room sizes, to the\xa0lobby, and even the three-story wine cellar. Then you have the two fantastic restaurants Nobu and Reuben’s pulling in the locals who come to wine and dine.''Check Prices Here!''The Marly – Best Boutique Hotel in Cape Town''Situated in Camps Bay this hotel is also located in our favorite neighborhood so it’s an easy add to a list of the best hotels in Cape Town. The interior features modern artists and the ceilings of the rooms are an art piece in and of themselves. It is a beach boutique hotel that is slick and contemporary. It’s one of the many reasons we love Cape Town, while the class and large scale luxury in the city center is only 15 minutes away places like The Marly sit in a small beach neighborhood lined with beach front restaurants and a laid back atmosphere. All make for the perfect setting to sit back and enjoy a South African sauvignon\xa0blanc on a sunny day.''Check Prices Here!''DoubleTree Hilton – Best “All you can need” Hotel in Cape Town''The full name is the''DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Cape Town UpperEastside –''it’s a mouthful. Anyways, the\xa0hotel\xa0makes for a great base around Woodstock area. We needed a place with an extremely comfy bed and all the creature comforts we’ve come to want after a full day of activities. The hotel lobby has a massive chandelier and fancy steps that make you feel famous. It’s a mid-upper range hotel that checked off everything on our list. You can order room service from the full menu of the hotel restaurant and that’s exactly what we did when we got back from''adventuring around Cape Town''. A tasty prego\xa0roll and salad suited the body well.''The hotel may not be in the CBD, but it is in the vibey neighborhood of Woodstock. Woodstock\xa0is the happening place in Cape Town these days. Walk outside of the modern hotel and you’ll find a gritty urban cultural neighborhood full of boutique shops, street art, coffee roasters, and one of Africa’s finest restaurants, The Test Kitchen.''Check the Prices!''Delaire Graff Estate – Best Winelands Hotel near Cape Town''While this hotel is not technically in Cape Town, it is in Stellenbosch. The famous Winelands that are practically a suburb of the city. The famous diamond jeweler and owner Laurence Graff personally oversaw the\xa0creation of the meticulous\xa0grounds. Rooms here are stylish. We loved the features like a popup TV that arrives via a desk at the foot of the bed and a personal pool that provides stunning views of the vineyards below. \xa0The restaurants Indochine and serve up world-class wine and cuisine.''The grounds house one of the best collections of art collections\xa0in Africa and are stunning to view. Visitors should request a tour to be explained all of the art on display, including Tretchikoff’s painting''Chinese Girl''. Our personal favorite piece of art on display was South African artist Ndikhumbule Ngqinambi’s''recorded history III''.''It’s little wonder that the estate is nicknamed “The Jewel Of The Cape Winelands.”''Check Prices Here!''Plan Your Trip To Cape Town''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and insurance. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cape Town:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Cape Town fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''If You’re Looking for a Cheap Place to Stay in Cape Town Read This''You Should Be Eating and Drinking in Cape Town Right Now''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''Why Not Head to Africa for the Perfect Honeymoon Escape?''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''The Seven Best Hotels In Cape Town You’ll Want to Stay At''was last modified:''December 2nd, 2017''by''Cameron''Traveling to Botswana? Lucky you! This southern Africa nation left us enchanted with its vast landscapes, varied wildlife, and hospitable people.''After a month in Namibia,''we arrived in Botswana with little expectations. Of course, we have seen Planet Earth and watched the wildlife from a television so we had some idea. However to witness the spectacle that is Botswana in person is entirely different. From Botswana’s first national park (Chobe National Park) to the''Makgadikgadi Pan''here are ten things to know before you travel to\xa0Botswana.''Things to know before you travel to Botswana''PULA''Pula is the national currency in Botswana. However, the word “Pula” literally means “rain” in Setswana. Botswana receives very little rainfall so the word pula is actually a phrase of delight. If you hear people screaming or chanting pula it means something great has happened! It also brings new meaning to the phrase “making it rain.”''The Economy''The nation of Botswana is one of the more well off countries in Africa. Actually, Botswana has previously had one of the''highest average economic growth\xa0rates in the world.''Since independence, the economy has flourished due to diamond mining.''Diamonds are a girl’s best friend''Yes, diamonds. The main export here is diamonds. The town of Jwaneng\xa0and the Jwaneng Diamond Mine employs many local people and is the largest and richest diamond mine in the world. Don’t tell your mom you’re traveling to Botswana, she may want you to bring home diamonds like mine. (Hi mom)!''A troubled past''I only recently found out about Botswana’s past after a trip to the movies in Lusaka. I just had to see''The United Kingdom'', and it was because of this that I learned of''Seretse Khama''and\xa0Bechuanaland. Khama was the first president of Botswana and is pretty much the George Washington of the country. His marriage to his controversial white bride played a role in Botswana becoming independent from Britain in 1966. Without given too many spoilers away, it’s safe to say that Botswana had a little trouble breaking away from Britain. But what country didn’t?''Stash some cash''Traveling Africa is not a cheap endeavor,\xa0but this rings especially true for Botswana travel. Botswana operates on a high-cost low impact\xa0model meaning they keep prices high for tourism so that they can preserve the beauty of their country. One of the most expensive and sought after things to do in the country is to see the Okavango Delta. Whilst the delta is incredible, it may put a dent in your wallet. We found fuel, camping, and groceries to be extremely affordable and it is even possible to see the Delta on a budget, but come knowing that to experience Botswana to the fullest you may have to make it''Pula''.''The Chobe''All this talk about the Okavango Delta and I haven’t even mentioned one of my favorite parks in Africa – the Chobe! The''Chobe National Park''has some of the best game in Africa and it was here that we got to see elephants bathing,\xa0newborn impala, dozens\xa0of fish eagles, and even four lion cubs eating a warthog. The Chobe is an absolutely wonderful park and it is even estimated that there are over 120,000 elephants roaming around. Put on''your safari hat''and head for the Chobe!''The No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency''There is an all lady detective agency in Gaborone run by the infamous Precious Ramotswe! Okay, Precious may be a bit of a fictitious\xa0character, but the book entitled, The No. 1 Ladies’ Detective Agency is an entertaining and very popular read. Alexander McCall Smith and this''series of books''put Botswana travel on the map for international readers.''The Population''Botswana is one of the least densely populated countries in the world. With a population of just over 2 million and over 40% of land dedicated to parks and wildlife, you should have no problem finding some peace and quiet in Botswana.''A bushbaby we found while camping!''The Setswana''The people of Botswana are not known as “Botswanans,” but instead they are Batswana or Motswana (singular). \xa0In case you were wondering the Batswana are friendly and accommodating people with a great pride for their country.''The Salt Pans''You know that salt pan in Bolivia that everyone loves to take a fun and catchy photo at? Well, there is one in Botswana too! The Makgadikgadi Pan is situated in north-eastern Botswana and is one of the largest salt flats in the world!''Plan Your Trip To\xa0Botswana''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and insurance. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to\xa0Botswana:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Look the Part:''Our guide to the best safari clothes.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Books:''We use a lot of guide books when we travel. Our personal favorite for travel is''Lonely Planet Botswana''. Are you going on safari in Botswana? We always carry our''Robert’s Southern Africa Bird Book''and a good''mammal guide''.''Water:''We found most of the water in Namibia fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Binoculars:''One of the most useful items to have on a safari are a pair of binoculars. We suggest picking up this pair of''binoculars''!''Are you ready to put Botswana on your travel radar?''You May Also Like:''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Things to Know Before You Travel to Botswana''was last modified:''February 3rd, 2018''by''Natasha''A road trip in Namibia is one of the greatest adventures to be had on this planet. When we arrived in Namibia for our road trip we had come with our preconceived notions, but we were not prepared. It is a land of inhospitable beauty\xa0and solitude. If you’re looking for some headspace then Namibia is where you’ll find it.''Road trips in Namibia are surreal.''With a population of only two million mostly living in the capital city, the 34th largest nation in the world has some desolate regions. However, despite being sparsely populated Namibia is well developed for an African Nation and can be easy to travel.''It’s been described to us as “Africa for beginners,” or “Africa light,” and since we had little time to plan and it was the first country''we drove through on our journey to Kenya''. A journey that full of difficulties to purchase our Land Cruiser in South Africa. When we finally had the keys to Charlie, our Land Cruiser, we had three days to leave South Africa, service the truck, purchase gear, and pack all the equipment we needed to overland Africa for the next eight\xa0months.''We managed to spend a month exploring the Namibia and Botswana practically had to rip us out! In this post, we break down what to see and where we went on in our Namibia road trip.''Namibia Road Trip Itinerary''Fish River Canyon''Fish River Canyon is a good''starting point if you are coming from South Africa''. The canyon is located about three hours from the\xa0Noordoewer border post; however, we wouldn’t cross the border late in the day. The road between the border and the canyon is desolate, turns to dirt, and has no street lights – welcome to Namibia.''The canyon is the second largest canyon on earth. It costs\xa080 NAD for foreigners to enter the area around the canyon, but the price is well worth the impressive view.''One of the best viewing points is from the Hobas viewpoint. We would recommend grabbing some cold Windhoek beers at the entrance gate and enjoy the Canyon at another viewpoint away from the crowds.''It’s possible to join a hiking trip through the canyon and see the canyon from a different point of view. However, these hiking permits are only issued between May and September as the Namibian heat gets intense in the summer and flash flooding is a threat.''We spent three days in the area, but if we were to do it over we think one day and two\xa0nights camping in the area is ideal.''Sleep & Eat''We suggest camping under the impressive Namibian night sky.''Gondwana’s Canyon Road''campsites are great and they have one of the only restaurants and fuel stations in the area. The NWR has campsites on offer, but they looked like a lesser value compared to the Canyon Road campsites. The second option is''Ai Ais''a hot spring campsite.''Luderitz''Luderitz may be one of the strangest towns we have ever set foot in. The\xa0German town is nestled between the turbulent Atlantic Ocean and the massive sand dunes of the Namib desert. When we made it\xa0to Luderitz it didn’t even feel like we were in Africa anymore, more like another planet.''German architecture, beerhouses, and street signs such as Bismark\xa0dominate the\xa0town. The vibe of the whole town is wonderfully strange, like something out of the twilight zone.''The main site 10 kilometers outside of Luderitz is Kolmanskop. Kolmanskop is an old abandoned mining town that is being swallowed by the desert. Kolmanskop rose to tourism fame when Nat Geo featured''this famous photo.''Ever since tourists flock to check to\xa0go snap happy at the ghost town.''You need a permit to enter Kolmanskop which can be purchased at the gate day of. Permits cost 75 NAD and include a tour that runs every day at 9:30 am. The tour lasts about an hour, but we would recommend waiting a few hours till the crowds die down to get photos.''On the B4 140km outside of\xa0Luderitz is the tiny mountains town of Aus. This is where you can see the last wild horses of Garub. They aren’t so wild at the moment as people are having to feed them during the drought to keep them alive. They are still incredible to see and appreciate how these horses survive in the middle of nowhere.''Sleep & Eat''I would''recommend an Airbnb in Luderitz''and grabbing some coffee and oysters at the''Diaz Coffee Shop''.''Sossusvlei''No visit to Namibia is complete without seeing the highest sand dunes in the world. A stop in Sossusvlei is on most travelers Namibian itinerary and for good reason. The red dunes are best seen in the morning light and in my opinion if you arrive anytime between 8:30 and 4:00 you are wasting your time (especially if you cherish photography). The sand gets almost too hot to walk on and depending on the season you may be sweating before you exit the car.''The only way to be the first at the dunes is if you stay at the''Seriesm Campsite''. Guests staying inside this gate get the opportunity to head to the dunes at 5:15, and then it’s a mad dash to beat the sun. Staying outside the gates are also an option, but you will have to wait until\xa06:15 \xa0when the\xa0gate opens\xa0– hence missing the sunrise.''Dune 45 is the highest dune in the park and is the popular place to watch the sunrise at. However, it can get crowded with overlanders so if you have your own vehicle I would venture a bit further to find\xa0a spot all to yourself.''After sunrise continues on to Deadvlei.\xa0Vlei is the Afrikaans word for “marsh” and that’s exactly what Deadvlei is – a dead marsh. You will 100% need a 4×4 to get to Deadvlei, but if you don’t have one there is a spot to park and guides will take you in for a small fee.''I would recommend getting to Sossusvlei at sunrise and wander around the dunes and Deadvlei for a few hours. By noon you will be ready to leave as it is HOT – trust me.''Sleep & Eat''The Sesriem campsite is decent, but do not let them put you in the “overflow” space. They have a full restaurant and bar there but if you want to stay cheap there is a small (and I mean small) grocery store across from the campsite. If you are on a higher budget''Wolwedans''is divine and a good place to relax on any Namibian road trip.''Swakopmund''Swakopmund is the ultimate destination for adventure in Namibia. You can entertain yourself with just about anything in Swakop – sandboarding, four wheelers, paragliding, or skydiving all on and over the Namib desert is great fun. Swakopmund is also one of the larger cities in Namibia so you will be able to get almost anything you need here to continue the road trip.''We enjoyed hanging out, sipping coffees, and catching up with other travelers in Swakopmund. It’s also worth heading to Swakop’s sister city of Walvis Bay to see the greater and lesser flamingos. The flamingos eat, sleep, and live on the coast of Walvis Bay all year long so you’re guaranteed to get excellent sightings of the famous pink birds.''Stay & Eat''I would''recommend an Airbnb''or stay at the''Swakopmund Plaza Hotel''. Don’t miss a coffee at''Slowtown coffee roasters''and make sure to grab a pizza at the''Secret Garden Bistro.''The Skeleton Coast''If you have a fully sufficient 4×4 then a trip up the Skeleton Coast completes any itinerary. The Skeleton Coast sounds so dreary because it is. The term was coined from the unforgiving nature of the coast and the endless ships it brings to their demise. If you keep driving north from Swakopmund you will eventually get into no man’s land. The road leads all the way North to Torra Bay, but keep in mind that you are pretty much self-sufficient up here.''Because of time, we drove as far north as the Cape Cross Seal Colony. We debated about burning the fuel to go to Cape Cross, but once we left we determined the experience was well worth it. Thousands and thousands of seals call Cape Cross home and it is an impressive sight to see in Namibia. Just make sure to bring some nose plugs – it’s the smelliest place in Namibia!''Stay & Eat''You’re on your own on the coast. Be\xa0fully equipped to camp, there is a campsite at Terrace Bay.''Etosha National Park''We had some\xa0great days of''safaris in Etosha National Park.''This is easily Namibia’s best park to spot a variety of game. Etosha is easy to self-drive\xa0in any type of vehicle so we wouldn’t recommend paying for a game viewer and guide here. There are plenty of great watering holes where the animals come to drink. Almost every time we stopped at a watering hole some''Lion King magic''was going down.''Etosha is extremely popular during school holidays and it is recommended to book accommodation in advance. Roads will get slightly more congested, but you’re still in one of the least populated countries on the\xa0planet so it won’t be anything like Kruger National Park in South Africa.''During the winter Etosha is dry, so chances of great sightings are common. We managed to see lions, hyenas, giraffe, rhino, ostriches, and just about everything else besides the elusive leopard roaming about. \xa0Perhaps, the best part of Etosha is the park fee. It cost just 80 NAD to enter one of the best wildlife parks in the world – that’s a bargain in Africa!''Stay & Eat''We would recommend staying at the''Gondwana Etosha Safari Camp''near the Anderson Gate\xa0or''Onguma Campsite''near Namutoni Gate. Both serve up fabulous food under the Namib night sky.''The Caprivi Strip''We made our way to greener pastures after\xa0Etosha''. Literally up North in the Caprivi Strip, the landscape changes drastically. Long gone is the dry desert air and endless sand that makes up so much of Namibia. The Caprivi Strip encompasses the Okavango River, Chobe River, and Zambezi River. We have to admit\xa0after three weeks in mainland Namibia it felt great to see a living tree again.''We also felt like we were once again in Africa once we got to the town of Rundu and continued onward. Not only was the area green, but we found fewer Germans and Afrikaans people, instead we found people, villages, and that general lively soul that makes up so much of the continent.''This was Tasha’s\xa0favorite part of Namibia. Just relaxing along the river watching the hippos and spotting the birdlife is magical in the Caprivi Strip. A popular thing to do on the Okavango is to take a houseboat out with a couple of sundowners and watch the sun light up the African sky.''Stay & Eat:''Hakusembe''is a great lodge just outside of Rundu. Right next to the lodge is a campsite along the river. There is a swimming pool, lounge, and lastly a living museum nearby where you can learn about the local culture. You can dine here while watching Angola on the over side of the Okavango.''From Rundu we made our way to the Botswana border, camping at various places and enjoying the Caprivi strip along the way.''Bonus! Footage From Our Namibian Road Trip''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Namibia is such a great country to explore on a road trip. There are rental companies in Namibia and South Africa that specialize in equipped 4x4s designed for camping. Petrol is relevantly cheap in Namibia at 11 NAD/Liter. Other great places to visit are the northwest where the Himba live, Spitzkoppe, and Damaraland. \xa0Read on for''15 travel tips to know before Namibia.''Plan A\xa0Road Trip Around Namibia''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and insurance. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Tours in Namibia:''If you’re not much of a driver you can always opt for an''overland tour with one of the many providers on TourRadar''. TourRadar is a site that allows you to search for the best tours, compare deals, and score sweet discounts.''Flights to\xa0Namibia:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found most of the water in Namibia fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''You’ll want to do some planning when you’re off in the bush. (Trust us, the bush doesn’t have WiFi). For those wireless nights we like''planning with Lonely Planet''.''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''was last modified:''December 12th, 2017''by''Natasha''It was a sad day when''we had to leave Namibia''and cross the border into Botswana. We had come to admire the desert country during our month there. We felt especially fond\xa0for the Caprivi strip. However, we\xa0crossed over the Ngoma border post\xa0and geared up to explore more of Africa. The brand new Chobe Water Villas were awaiting us.''Cruising into Chobe Water Villas''We didn’t miss Namibia too long, though, because\xa0two hours later we were crossing the Chobe River and getting our passports stamped back into Namibia. It had been a long day of driving from the Katima area.''Filled with attempted bribery, sweltering heat, and an African border crossing. We were beyond excited when our boat pulled up to the brand new''Chobe Water Villas''on the Namibian side of the Chobe River.''It\xa0is the first African lodge we stayed at located on a river. \xa0It’s also the most modern accommodation we have seen in Africa. Walking into the main area transports you into a varying array of time zones and locations. The interior was decorated in chic white and gray décor and stark shapes.''Exploring the architecture and decoration of the hotel leads to sources of inspiration from around Namibia.\xa0\xa0From the skeleton of a whale, to the seasonal rains that bring life.''The lobby is\xa0certain to entertain guests as it\xa0features a self-service bar, coffee station, a library full of Afri-chic books, and a cinema room.''I knew we were in for a day time treat when I walked out onto patio area and was faced with a giant infinity pool, next to an in-ground boma perfect to enjoy a round of sundowners.''With the heat of the African summer setting in, I knew we would be making use of the bar, books, and the infinity pool.''{''Read More:''The Ultimate List of Eco-Friendly Products to Take on Your Travels''}''The rooms – or villas – I should say, at Chobe Water Villas are all set on stilts above the Chobe River. All across from the famous Chobe National Park and Sedudu Island in Botswana.''The villas were spacious and housed bells and whistles like their own espresso machine and mini-bar. Cameron made full use of the game finder while I was able to chill out with a new\xa0book on the back deck on the river.''We had a great nights sleep in the massive comfortable bed, with an air-conditioned canopy called the evening breeze. (didn’t I say this place was modern?).''{Read More:''Traveling Africa: 18 Reasons I am Determined to Overland the Continent''}''Now, Cameron and I are not morning people, but we made the extra effort to wake up for sunrise every morning.''The rooms are in the perfect spot to watch the sun rise up over Southern Africa. Watching Africa come to life from the banks of the river is magical.''On our\xa0first day, we made our way across the river and back into Botswana into the Chobe National Park. Chobe Water Villas organizes trips into the park for guests on either a half or full day safari basis.''We choose to do a morning game drive and saw a plethora of elephant, newborn impala, vultures, and buffalo. We kept our fingers crossed for a leopard sighting, but unfortunately, it just wasn’t our day.''Chobe National Park has one of Africa’s largest concentrations of game. They have a staggering amount of elephant in the park as well as the''rest of the big five.''We had a leisurely ride back into Namibia with the team and finished the afternoon with a dip in the infinity pool.''{''Read More:''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''}''Evenings are a special time on the river as tourists set out for a boat safari into Chobe National Park.''The boat safaris get you up close and personal (but not too close) to the hundreds of hippos, crocs, antelope, and abundant birdlife around the water.''All of this, is enjoyed with snacks and sundowner drinks provided by the villas.''two feet away from the Pied King Fisher – my favorite!''Speaking of snacks, I have to mention that the food we were served at Chobe Water Villas was some of the best we’ve had in Africa.''Going with the whole modern theme the food at the lodge is multi-cultural and new era inspired. Breakfast always started with a nice cold plate of croissants, fresh fruit, and cheese while dinner is served in their 36 seater restaurant.''Dinner is always a three-course meal with meat, fish, or vegetarian options and unlike many lodges, food here was an international affair. Dinner and breakfast were fantastic; however, r the real treat was served at lunch for us.''The staff prepared for us a table in the private garden lithesome light food. Salad, charcuterie plate, mac & cheer, plus views equal\xa0happiness.''{''Read More:''Namib Desert Exploring: A Field Guide To Driving Southern Namibia''}''Sunrise to sunset and everything in between at Chobe Water Villas was surreal. Day time activities are\xa0filled with wildlife viewing, riverside drinking, and leisure.''Evening are spent in relaxation enjoying the ambiance of the Chobe River with some delicious food.''General Info''Because we were coming from Namibia we had to cross over the\xa0Ngoma border post into Botswana. Both Namibia and Botswana ran smooth border post operations here. US citizens do not need a visa to enter Namibia or Botswana, but be sure to state how long you want to stay in Botswana because the border officials will give you exactly that many days.''If self driving expect to pay a road tax fee of 50 Pula. Payable by card at the Botswana border post.''Chobe Water Villas covers the cost of the park entrance fee into Chobe National Park. If you are not staying at CWV''expect to pay 120 Pula''for a day pass.''The gateway to Chobe Water Villas and the rest of Chobe is through Kasane, Botswana. This is a small town, but there are a number of\xa0ATM’s, coffee shops, restaurants, and a Spar.''This is Africa, so watch your car where you park it in Kasane. I would recommend a guarded parking lot.''Don’t have anything shipped to Kasane. I had to have a few things delivered to me so I was informed Kasane might be the best place to have international packages delivered. After a month, none of my packages were there and one had been signed for under someone named “George.”''This is Africa.''A stay at Chobe Water Villas include full board, drinks, and all activities.''Thank you to the Chobe Water Villas for partnering with us on our stay. As always, all opinions expressed are our own.''You May Also Like:''Modernity Meet Africa on the Great Chobe River''was last modified:''February 17th, 2017''by''Natasha''Six months ago we landed in Southern Africa with a plan to travel the continent far and wide. Now we have traveled through South Africa, Mozambique, Lesotho, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Zambia capturing some of the\xa0best photos of Africa by air. Africa is a continent jam-packed with staggering natural beauty, so we never missed a chance to''throw our drone''in the sky. Here is what six months in Southern Africa (with a layover in the Seychelles), looks like from above.''Photos of Africa from the Sky''Free State, South Africa''We spent three months in South Africa and one of our first stops was in the Free State. This was taken while we were exploring the''Drakensberg mountains.''Bazaruto Archipelago, Mozambique''Mozambique may be one of the most underrated destinations in Africa''.\xa0One of our most memorable days in the country was when we hired a local dhow to take us out to Bazaruto Island.''Maletsunyane Falls, Lesotho''A must for me was seeing''Maletsunyane Falls while we were in Lesotho.''We drove\xa0all around the “Kingdom in the Sky” before ending up at the 192-meter high waterfall. If you want a waterfall all to yourself, head to Lesotho.''Maputo Elephant Reserve, Mozambique''We had just entered Mozambique from Swaziland. We had no cash on us, no SIM card, and to make matters worse we didn’t have a 4×4 vehicle.''Someone had to pick us up outside the Maputo Elephant Reserve''to drive us through the sand terrain, but it was all worth it for this sunset.''Namib Desert, Namibia''We had briefly seen the''Sahara while in Morocco''. Regardless, when we saw the Namib Desert in the proper light for the first time we were absolutely speechless.''Chapman’s Peak, Cape Town''I mentioned that we were in South Africa for three months out of the year. Can you believe that almost two of those were spent in Cape Town? The''city was just so gorgeous''we never wanted to leave!''Maputo Special Reserve, Mozambique''It may be hard to believe, but the only people we saw on the''Southern Mozambique coast were local fishermen''. No crowds of tourists or annoying beach vendors – just pure serenity.''Chobe National Park, Botswana''Chobe National Park has over 50,000 elephants. We got to catch this herd taking a bath in the river.''Bazaruto Archipelago, Mozambique''Another shot of the clear blue waters that make up the Bazaruto Archipelago in Mozambique. Did you know this is one of the last places in the''world you can spot Dugongs?''Drakensberg Amphitheatre, South Africa''It was an exhilarating and almost terrifying hike to the top of Mont Aux Sources in the middle of Winter. However, this unreal view is what all the fuss is about.''Moremi National Park, Botswana''We got to Moremi National Park right as\xa0the rainy season began in Botswana. During the rainy season animals become difficult\xa0to spot as the bush becomes\xa0very thick and they don’t have to travel to watering holes to drink. We were lucky still got to see all the wildlife before they got too deep in the bush.''Sossusvlei, Namibia''We woke up at 4:30 am to race into the\xa0Namib-''Naukluft National Park. Groggy eyes and weary\xa0heads we still said it was\xa0worth it to watch the sunrise all by ourselves.''Lake Kariba, Zimbabwe''Lake Kariba is the largest man-made lake in the world! It splits Zambia and Zimbabwe in the North and has a vibrant eco system.''Kalk Bay, Cape Town''To break away from the''city life in central Cape Town''we escaped to Kalk Bay for a weekend. Watching the fishermen and busy harbor never got boring!''Cape Town, South Africa''If there was one thing I didn’t like about Cape Town it was weekend traffic.\xa0However,''we used to live in NYC''so traffic like this never seemed''that''bad.''NamibRand Nature Reserve, Namibia''We were able to delve deep into the NamibRand Nature Reserve when we stayed at the''luxurious Wolwedans''for five nights. This shows just how isolated one of their camps are in the desert.''Okavango Delta, Botswana''We had our morning coffee beneath a\xa0herony in the Okavango Delta. At first, they were skeptical of the drone – I think they got used to it after awhile though!''Lake Kariba, Zimbabwe''The elephant populations in Zimbabwe are huge. This guy hung around our''camp\xa0on\xa0the lake''the\xa0entire time just grazing and loving life.''Zambezi River, Zambia''We spent a night at one of the top eco-lodges in Africa. Located right on the Zambezi River is the sublime''Sindabezi Island''.''Fish River Canyon, Namibia''Fish River Canyon is the largest Canyon in Africa and is one of the''most visited attractions in Namibia''. We arrived midday at the canyon and almost melted away from the heat. We returned later with a couple of cold beers to watch the sun go down.''Mahe, The Seychelles''Not Southern Africa, but we stopped here on a week long layover before landing in Johannesburg.''I have never seen such a lush paradise before.''Lake Kariba, Zimbabwe''We wanted to avoid the police roadblocks while driving in Zimbabwe, so we went deep into the African jungle in order to reach''our destination''. Who knew Zimbabwe was so gorgeous?''Moremi National Park, Botswana''I had to include this because of the Giraffes curious expression. He was neither\xa0scared or nervous of the drone – he just kept looking at it like this.''Okavango Delta, Botswana''Taken just after sunrise on the Okavango Delta – one of the most incredible places on earth for wildlife.''Sedudu Island, Botswana''Sedudu Island is situated on the Chobe River between Botswana and Namibia. The land has been disputed between the two nations and even led to an armed conflict. However,\xa0it now belongs to Botswana who keep preserved as part of Chobe National Park. Everyday we spent on the Chobe this massive herd of Buffalo was there to greet us.''Kalahari Desert, Namibia''Hi, Charlie! (''That’s our awesome Land Cruiser)''. He is out gateway to Africa and takes us everywhere we need to be. Here he is just chilling in the Kalahari.''Southern Mozambique''This isn’t about a specific place in Mozambique. For all it matters, is somewhere along the coast in the south. It demonstrates\xa0another example of how untouched parts of Mozambique really are.''NamibRand Nature Reserve, Namibia''That’s a dazzle of Zebra in the distance. It’s amazing how these animals adapt and live in such inhospitable environments.''Lake Kariba, Zimbabwe''This shot was taken on Christmas Day. A group of us took a “booze cruise” out to watch the sun go down. Not exactly a white Christmas!''Mahe, The Seychelles''My favorite drone shot from the Seychelles. To me, it really captures the essence of the islands and''how badly we need to save places like these!''Have we convinced you to buy a drone and fly to Africa yet?''All photography pictured was shot with our''DJI Phantom 3 Advanced''. We have no affiliation with DJI, but love their products and couldn’t wait to take our drone to Africa.''Check drone prices here.''Plan Your Trip to Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Africa:''We hear about many of the places we stay in Africa through word of mouth. However in big African cities, we always check''HotelsCombined.com''first.''Flights to Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Look the Part:''Our guide to the best safari clothes.''Car Rental in Africa:''Although we decided to buy a car to get around Africa we rented a car with''Auto Europe''for our first two months on the continent.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''Much of the water in Africa is questionable at best. We always use our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''to ensure safe drinking water.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''30 Amazing Drone Photos of Southern Africa You Have to See''was last modified:''July 25th, 2017''by''Natasha''In Africa celebrations are special like the taking a birthday cruise on the Zambezi Queen. When I turned''25 last year on the road it was nothing special''. I wouldn’t go so far as to call it a bad day, but spending it in a lifeless''tourist town in Turkey''was not ideal. Our food options boiled down to two restaurants in town, and since we had seen the famous cotton castle the day before there was nothing more to do in town. So, we spent the day\xa0holed away in our hotel room.''The Zambezi Queen''However, my 26th birthday in Africa was set to be once in a lifetime event. A birthday taking place in one of the best national parks in Africa from a five-star house boat.''The Zambezi Queen is\xa0a one of kind floating five-star hotel. She isn’t\xa0built for speed or distance, but for comfort, style, and luxury. All while offering her guests sweeping views of the Chobe flood plain and the wildlife that ensues.''For four nights we spent our time cruising up and down the Chobe River taking in the sights of the incredible birdlife, flood plains, and varying wildlife.''Arriving On Board The Zambezi Queen''We arrived on board the Zambezi Queen as she floated from her mooring point on the Chobe River. The Queen is serviced by small tender boats that deliver guest to the full team giving an African song and dance welcome.''After our introduction to the Queen, we made our way to the top level. The top floor includes a massive lounge, decks, and dining area.\xa0A quick safety briefing and some welcome drinks later we headed down to our rooms before lunch.''The Rooms''All of the rooms on board the Zambezi Queen have personal balconies offering never ending views of the Chobe river. We got lucky and were given the forward room. The front rooms house a balcony that encompasses the room giving tremendous views at water level.''It makes for beautiful mornings and evenings as you feel connected to the sounds of the lapping Chobe River. The room itself was spacious for being on a boat and having A/C during the African summer was a life saver.''The large glass doors opened the whole room up, allowing us to soak up the ambiance of the African river.''Cruising on the Chobe''Staying directly\xa0on the Chobe river is one of the unique experiences to have in Africa. Our first evening on the Queen we cruised a few kilometers up and down the river taking in the wildlife from all sides.''Most notably a large herd of African Buffalo that are known for living on Sedudu Island. Sedudu Island is the infamous island situated between Botswana and Namibia. After territorial dispute at The Hague in the Netherlands, it was decided that the island belongs to Botswana in 1999.''It’s worth noting that the Queen is more of a houseboat, not a cruise ship. Her\xa0very shallow hull makes it so she can\xa0only navigate a few kilometers up and down the Chobe river. However, her fleet of tender boats allows for visitors to explore the smaller channels of the Chobe flood plain at speed.''With beer and wine\xa0inclusive onboard we grabbed ourselves some sundowners and took in the views from the top deck. We hung out with the other guests talking about our journeys in Africa and enjoying the pool on the front deck. The views from up top were absolutely fantastic.''As we moved along the banks of the Chobe river plain we saw Red Lechwe, Hippos, Crocodiles, and Fish Eagles. It became a regular occurrence to hear the call of a fish eagle while on the Chobe. A call\xa0we’re still very fond of and miss everyday we don’t hear.''(Listen to it here).''Experiences To\xa0Have on\xa0The Zambezi Queen''While on board the Zambezi Queen Collection we were able to try out several activities on the Chobe River. With a river full of wildlife and a world renowned game park on the banks there was no shortage of things to do.''Fishing''When it comes to Southern Africa, fishing on any number of the many rivers and lakes is a must. I’d heard of the legendary''tigerfish''and knew catching one was something I wanted to do.''The tigerfish is more or less the meanest looking trout you’ve ever seen. The fish themselves are one of the biggest predators in African lakes and rivers, asides from crocodiles. They have massive teeth and have taken many an angler’s fingers.''The tigerfish found in these rivers are known for the fight they put up and their tendency to jump out of the water a tactic that they also implore in hunting.\xa0So, that splash you hear on the water’s edge is likely a tigerfish on the hunt. I think I’d make my father proud to tell him that we went fishing on my birthday (Hi Dad)! However, I managed to only catch a cool photo and watch Natasha reel in the fish…''Tigerfish caught on the Chobe River''During our fishing journey, we managed to slip into the Ichingo Chobe River Lodge for lunch. Ichingo caters to those looking to go fishing on the nearby Zambezi and Chobe Rivers. \xa0We had a delicious fish meal and watched the birds dart between the rapids surrounding the island. Much to our delight we also spotted a plethora of unique and rare birds.''River Safaris''Game Drives come in a different variety while on board the queen. Many travelers to Africa get the chance to experience viewing the great wildlife spectacle from the back of a game viewer; however, to see them by boat is unique.''There are a number of places in Africa in which you can experience animals from this unique angle. However, the Chobe River is arguably one of the best for game viewing. The river is bountiful – seeing fish eagles, hippos, crocodiles, and elephants became common\xa0practice''It is incredible to watch a large herd of elephants descend from the bush to come take a bath and drink the water.\xa0If you are looking to see elephants bath and have fun in a river then the Chobe River may just be your calling.\xa0The park is known for its massive elephant population that often frequent the banks of the river.''I know you’re wondering, and yes the game in Chobe extends to predators. We spotted lions twice. On one occasion\xa0we were fortunate enough to see four cubs that were only a couple of weeks old walking with their mothers who then proceeded to catch\xa0a warthog. Sorry Pumba!\xa0Lions and warthogs don’t get along like''Disney may lead us to believe.''Chobe National Park''The Chobe National Park was Botswana’s first national park. It is the third largest park in the country and is roughly\xa011,700 km''2''large. The area that covers the national park is limited in scope to the area as a whole. The surrounding of the park are both unfenced and declared non-hunting zones creating\xa0free movement for the animals. If you’re looking to''spot the big five''then look no further than the Chobe National Park.''In combination with the Savuti area, Khwai, Linyanti, Okavango Delta, Various Concessions, and Moremi National Park it makes for a massive swath of land that is entirely wild.''This massive swath of land has lead to large animal populations such as elephants. It is estimated that there are close to 120,000 elephants in the park. The region is also home to one of Africa’s rarest predators, the African wild dog. Although we were not lucky enough to see them it is said that the Northern Botswana is the place to catch a glimpse.''The Chobe is one of the best places to go on safari in Southern Africa.''You don’t have to experience the Chobe from the Zambezi Queen Collection or the Chobe Water Villas. You always check out a''multi destination tour that goes to more than one place in Botswana.''Climate and Weather''There are two seasons in the Chobe area, a dry season and rainy season. We visited the Chobe just a week after the first rains and landscape flourished. We came across hundreds of young animals.\xa0Mothers have the ability to delay their birth to the start of the rainy season in order to give their young the best chance possible for survival.''Tasha’s favorite were the baby impala we saw that\xa0were a matter of hours old, others only days.''Birding''We’ve admitted it''once or twice before'', but we really like birding. It’s something that those with limited safari experience would laugh at, but after seeing the hundredth elephant of the day you want to find something new. Birding has another quality to it.''The African Darter''Instead of quickly identifying game, which we can do now after six months in Africa, it requires spotting and identifying the small animal.''Don’t tell our safari guides we already know the difference between a Red Lechwe, Impala, Springbok, Waterbuck, and Bushbuck, it might break their hearts''.''To spot an African Skimmer or watch a Pied\xa0Kingfisher catch their\xa0lunch is fascinating on the Chobe River. We continue to get great enjoyment from watching the characteristics of the wide diversity of birds in Africa.''Village Tour''Guests are given the option to see local life on the Chobe River. There are numerous villages on both the Botswana and Namibia side of the Chobe. We stopped at one on the Namibian side and had great fun with the kids there!''It’s all perplexing and a sobering reminder of what life is like off the boat. Pun intended. After a tour of the village, the villagers gathered in a boma to put on a show off their traditional music for us. The kids get really into it!''We’d recommend going on at least one or two village tours while in Africa and forming your own opinion. It’s a large debate for us. On one hand it interesting, but it feels a bit like treating the villagers as if they were some sight to been seen. On the other hand, it provides income, employment, and often services to communities that are extremely poor and disenfranchised. A number of the Zambezi Queen staff and guides even come from the local villages.''Special Occasions on Zambezi Queen''I did not seem to be in the minority about celebrating an event while on board the Zambezi Queen. None the less I was the only one celebrating a birthday. It turned out to be a wonderful day shared with warm people from all around the world. With such a unique and incredible experience, the Queen no doubts see their\xa0fair share of celebrations.''I find it hard that anyone could manage to complain about a birthday where you wake up to views of the Chobe River, spend the days in\xa0search of African wildlife along river banks, and finish with a lovely meal.''Oh, they even had WiFi on the ship. So, I was able to make a phone call home to the family on my birthday while enjoying a nice wine from the house selection.''From the Queen to the Princess''The Zambezi Queen Collection is a fleet of house boats and a fishing lodge in the middle of four countries. If the Queen is a floating hotel, the Princesses are floating beach houses. Everything is a little more laid back and personal.''We arrived on board the Princess Three, and instantly fell in love with the more laid back feeling. The princesses are smaller size which\xa0gives them the advantage of parking right along the Chobe National Park.''Our room on board the princess was on her bow. The flat front of the boat provided us a lovely deck extending out of the water. While the mooring location right across from the aptly named “Elephant Bay” made for entertaining evenings and mornings.''The first morning onboard the Princess I stepped out onto our\xa0deck and gazed out across the calm morning river. A fish eagle perched on the banks from the previous night took off in flight in my direction. Seconds later he dipped into the water and snatched a fish from the river, landing on the bank meters in front of me.''It is and was one of the most magical moments I have had in Africa. A\xa0moment that will stay with me for life.''The days onboard the Princess were spent much the same as the Queen while our downtime was spent wandering around the deck and reading barefoot.''Stationed right on the Chobe National Park made for a special dusk time. While the various day trip boats rush off the water before the sun sets guests on the Chobe Princess are\xa0left\xa0alone on the bank of the river. We watched Elephants playing one evening and the young lion cubs another in complete solitude.''Nights\xa0are spent on the top deck enjoying sundowners and dining at the\xa0communal table. Drinks and dinner are social affairs, it’s a theme to be enjoyed at lodges throughout\xa0Africa.''After, full days in the sun on the Chobe river and the festivities surrounding my birthday we had no issue getting a great night sleep. The environment on the choke river is soothing and made for wonderful night’s sleep.''The day of our departure was one we were not looking forward to. Staying for four nights on the Chobe River was incredible. It is the experiences such as these that bring out the true magic of Africa.''You Don’t Realize How Good You Have It''Our river safaris were spent on the Chobe River with the Zambezi Queen. We had no idea just how incredible and large the animal population of the Chobe River was until much later. Spotting fish eagles, hearing the grunt of a hippo, and seeing hundreds of elephants spoils visitors to the Chobe area. It wasn’t until much later during our trip through Africa did we realize just how incredible the whole wildlife spectacle really is on the Chobe.''Tips for Spending Time on African Rivers''We recommend taking anti-malarial medicine, dependent on\xa0the time of year. Six nights on the Chobe river with a minimal amount of insect repellant I walked away two bites. However, I always say to err on the side of caution.''Sun protection is an absolute necessity. The African sun bouncing off the waters of the Chobe river can give you a serious burn and is dangerous. Remember to''pack a hat'',''sunglasses'', and plenty of sunblock''Protect your electronics! Given the time of year humidity can feel like stepping into a sauna, now imagine your electronics in this long term. We store rice sachets with our electronics now after they started acting up. Can’t find a sachet? Fill a sock with rice!plenty of sunblock.''You will need passport space for crossing\xa0between borders. Although, Namibia and Botswana are only small stamps in our passports they still eat up space.''Bring a pair of binoculars. They’re a necessity when birding and make for a much more enjoyable game viewing experience.''Thank you to Zambezi Queen Collection\xa0for sponsoring our stay! As always, all opinions remain our own.''Read More:''Cruising on the Chobe River in Luxury with the Zambezi Queen''was last modified:''July 25th, 2017''by''Natasha''It’s official, after spending two months in Cape Town we have''purchased a\xa0Toyota Landcruiser''and we’re currently driving across Africa! Don’t ask us about all of the logistics, a lot of it we are making up as we go along. It’s just what we do – don’t judge.''We dabbled with the idea of taking public transport\xa0from Cape Town. Which, would make for some pretty incredible stories. However, we are traveling with a lot of expensive gear and would prefer to have the freedom of our own car especially in the most remote parts of Africa.''We spent months planning this trip and items we packed\xa0have been carefully and meticulously selected. That’s why I want to give you a look inside our bags and truck.''So you can see\xa0what we have packed to''overland across Africa''for the next nine months. These items are great\xa0for any traveler planning an amazing safari, or for the adventurers that are over landing the continent independently.''As with travel almost everywhere, less is more. Choosing simple items that are versatile and not overpacking is key here.''Table of Contents''Where to Pack''Clothing''Medicine''Toiletries''Gear''Extras''Photography''Buy it in Africa''For the Car''Insurance''Overlanding Africa? Here’s what to pack.''Where to pack your stuff''Leave the suitcases at home and consider buying a''durable hiking backpack''or''safari rucksack''to overland Africa with. There is no need for a rolling suitcase unless you are in a city. Both Cameron and I travel with''Osprey bags''and love their durability.''Osprey has a fantastic lifelong warranty should anything happen to the bag, but fortunately we haven’t had to worry about this. Cameron has the''Osprey Atmos 65 AG Men’s''which fits his back nicely and also has a lot of little compartments to store tiny items.''I carry the''Osprey Farpoint''which is perfect for men and women. The Farpoint doesn’t have a lot of bells and whistles, but it’s small and you can hide the straps in a nice zip up compartment.''We both also organize our luggage with''packing cubes.''I’m a firm believer in''eagle creek packing cubes''and my pack it system has gone around the world with me.''Cameron has''generic packing cubes''which have held up just fine as well.''Africa is the land of job creation. You don’t have to pump your own gas, nor do you have to do your own laundry. So, getting your clothes washed and ironed cost only a few dollars.''However, for when we are in the isolated bush we travel with the''Scrubba bag''to keep our clothes fresh.''Read More: {''The Best Backpacks to Travel Africa With''}''What clothes to pack for Overlanding Africa''Keep in mind that most of Africa is in the tropics. You will want to pack clothing that is light, loose, and cool. I prefer clothing without a lot of mumbo-jumbo\xa0on it and just stick to plain colors. Colors like beige and green are great ones to go with. I would avoid blacks as that will tend to heat you up and definitely stay away from blues as it attracts the tsetse fly. You won’t need anything stylish for anywhere besides\xa0the big cities in South Africa. In Mozambique and Zanzibar stick to''beach essentials.''Sturdy hiking shoes'':''Isn’t much mystery here – you will want good shoes while traveling Africa.''I love my Merrells, but here are''some other favorites of mine''!''Flip flops'':''It’s always a good idea to have a pair of flip flops to throw on in the moments notice. Plus you will want something for all those communal showers.''Sandals:''It gets hot in Africa so consider a good pair of tough sandals to wear. I like my''Merrells''!''Ankle Socks:''Again – hot in Africa so get some ankle socks to stay cool''Compression\xa0Socks:''We always wear our''Danish Endurance compression socks''on hike days as they keep our feet dry.''Wool Socks'':''Good for those cold nights in the bush.''Lightweight Pants:''At least one good pair of reliable “safari” pants are a good call in Africa.''Read more about em here!''Elephant Pants:''If I’m not in my''safari pants''then I am most definitely wearing my “''elephant pants''.” Okay, they don’t have elephants on them but they are loose, lightweight, and comfortable. They may not be suitable for walking the streets of Milan – but you’re in Africa!''Yoga Pants:''One thing that is always in my bag is a pair of yoga pants. Stretchy and comfortable for those long car rides.''Shorts:''I have quick-drying athletic ones, as well as khaki shorts.''Polyester Shirts:''Quick drying, lightweight, and they last for a long time.''Warm Jacket:''Don’t underestimate those cool African mornings and nights. If you travel without at least one jacket in Africa you will have a bad time.''Sweater''Bathing Suit:''Many campsites of pools. And then, of course, there are coastal countries like''Mozambique.''Windbreaker Jacket''Hat:''To keep the sun off your face.''Buff:''We use our''buffs (I have the earl grey)''for pretty much everything. My personal favorite is using it to keep my hair back.''Sunglasses:''If you’re like me and break sunglasses all the time then consider picking up some extra ones when you land.''Towel:''A quick-drying,''lightweight sports towel is the way to go.''Scarf for the Ladies:''I never go anywhere without a scarf in my bag. It helps to keep my neck warm obviously, but I also always use it to cover up when in conservative countries.''Shemagh''for the men:''Cameron loves his shemagh as it keeps him warm while looking cool in the desert.''Keep in mind that if you arrive in Africa in a big city like''Cape Town'', Joburg, or''Nairobi''that you’re going to be able to do some shopping and pick up any clothing items that you left at home. A good outdoor company is Cape Union Mart though it is a bit expensive. If you want cheap clothing that you know you will throw out the end of your trip then try Mr. Price Sport. \xa0For those that are just going on, safari check out our''incredibly detailed guide on safari packing!''What Medicines to Pack''We purchased all of our medicine on arrival in South Africa and at a fraction of the price it costs in the US.\xa0\xa0On our first day in South Africa, we went to the clinic, got yellow fever shots for $40. Then proceed onto the pharmacy where we walked away with a years supply of Doxycycline, anti-biotics, Dioherria Medicine, and Rehydration tablets for less than $30.''We recommend sticking to the doctors on the continent who are familiar with and have treated diseases like Malaria and Bilharzia. We found bargains on medical items\xa0at''Dis-chem''pharmacies\xa0throughout South Africa.''Anti-Malarial'': We use doxycycline so we don’t have to deal with all the crazy dreams from Malarone. Again – super cheap in South Africa. However, be warned that doxycycline comes with sun sensitivity side effects and should only be taken on a full stomach. Read more about what we think of malaria and other''scary things in Africa.''Diarrhea Medicine'':\xa0If you come out of Africa with only diarrhea then you deserve a medal''Aspirin or''Ibuprofen''Antiseptic cream''Calamine Lotion''Mosquito repellant:''Available in large supermarkets in South Africa for cheap. The Peaceful Sleep brand is our favorite.''Amoxicillin:''We brought this from home just as a precaution and haven’t used it. Good to know we have, though!''Malaria\xa0Cure:''We picked up some boxes of Artemether & Lumefantrine for $3 in Mozambique so that we have them on hand should we ever get malaria''Vitamins:''Bring these from home or get in South Africa''Rehydration tablets''What Toiletries to Pack''Most of these are just your typical standard “duh” items. It may seem like you need to go overboard and bring three months worth, but this isn’t Mars you will be able to pick up the standard items at supermarkets. If you need specific products you like from back home then make sure to bring extras of that.''Soap, Shampoo, Facewash, Toothbrush''FLOSS'': More difficult to find in some parts of Africa, make sure to stock up.''Hairbrush''Nail clippers''Contact solution:''It’s not surprising that contact solution is hard to find as well. Make sure to stock up when you get to a larger pharmacy.''Sunscreen:''Expensive in Africa. Our favorite is''Peak Sunscreen.''Vasoline:''Get it in Africa. It’s dirt cheap and comes in handy for all that cracked skin you are bound to encounter.''The reality is that\xa0beside specialized products and makeup you will be able to buy most toiletries in any African supermarket. We stock up on toothpaste, deodorant, conditioner, and just about all the necessities every month or so.''Read More: {''What’s in my pack around the world?''}''What Gear to Pack''Backpack:''I like putting valuables all into my backpack and then watching it for dear life. But a backpack can serve just about any purpose.''Here are our favorite day packs.''Foldable Daypack:''I like the''Eagle Creek Packable Day Pack''. It folds up really small and we always use it when we are going to the store to save on plastic.''Waterbottles:''I’ve said it once and I’ll say it again, but the''Lifestraw Go''really does wonders. If you’re traveling with your own vehicle we would highly recommend purchasing a water tank.''Multipurpose Tool''Matches, Lighters, and Candles''Little Sun:''Good for those nights when you just want to read in your tent.''Michelin Map'':''A GPS is great, but a real map is better. Never take on Africa without a map.''Adaptors:''Most of East Africa runs on the''Type D or G socket''. I would suggest buying one on Amazon before you land to avoid paying a ridiculous price.''Padlock:''Never a bad idea''Headlamp'':''Essential in Africa. You can’t just flick on the lights anywhere and you will often be in remote locations.''An excellent''flashlight:''We didn’t skimp on a good flashlight. I don’t want to walk around at night knowing there are hyenas that I can’t see.''Extra’s that you should consider bringing to Overland Africa with''Extra adapter''s'': Travel adaptors can give out quick. It’s never a bad idea to have a spare to save you from traveling around trying to find one.''Extra phone charges:''iPhone charges suck and I find myself always replacing them. They are cheap to make but are expensive in Africa. Travel with extra.''Earplugs and eyeshades:''You’ll thank me later''Power bank''Car Charger'': You can get these for next to nothing in South Africa, and it will 100% get used.''Hand Sanitizer:''Depending on how long your trip is, you may want to stock up this.''Photography Equipment to bring to Africa''Carrying a solid camera in Africa''is pretty much essential. The average point and shoot camera will fall entirely short here and will only leave you disappointed with the photos. We carry both a professional DSLR and a new mirrorless camera.''Hopefully, you will be staying a good distance back from most\xa0wildlife spottings so a telephoto lens will become your best friend. Cameron travels with a''Canon 5D''with a''telephoto lens''and I travel with a''Fujifilm X-T10''with a 200mm lens.''We also travel everywhere with a''GoPro Hero 4''because it is good for adventure activities and capturing video. However, the GoPro is a disaster for catching wildlife photography due to its wide angle.''We both bought extra camera batteries in South Africa because you may not have the chance to charge up every night.\xa0We also carry\xa0a''1 TB hard drive''for backing up our photographs.''If you want great aerials of the beautiful African landscape then a drone may be your thing. We’ve been able to catch great footage with our''DJI Phantom 3 Advanced''of the Kalahari, Okavango Delta, Namib desert,''and beautiful Cape Town.''Just be sure to look up drone laws before you fly!''Buy it in Africa''Coffee Press:''We quickly realized that many Africans like instant coffee, which does not do for us. We got ourselves a french press for $4 in Swaziland and have used it every day since.''Camping Gear:''Many of the big cities in Africa have western markets. You can buy tents, sleeping bags, kitchenware, and all of that stuff for much less than you can in Europe or America. Then you don’t have to lug it to Africa either.''Sunglasses:''You know those people that walk around all day on the beach trying to sell you fake sunglasses? Well, they are in Africa too. I would recommend stocking up on a pair so you are never without them when in the middle of nowhere.''A Car:''Buying a car in South Africa''is sure to be a hell of a lot cheaper than buying one in your home country and shipping to Africa. Consider dealing with the headache of buying in Africa to save on cash.''Update:''We also SOLD our car in Africa!''Insurance\xa0while Overlanding Africa''Our 1991 Toyota Landcruiser 4×4 that we named “Charlie” cost us 60,000 ZAR. \xa0Therefore we chose not to take out insurance on the car and we will be praying for the best. Best case scenario we get our money back when we sell the car in Kenya. Worst case scenario we completely total the car. Stay tuned.''Although, we skimped on vehicle insurance we would not consider traveling Africa without medical insurance. I pay $475/year for my plan with has a $500 deductible and covers me up to $100,000. We also paid $170 for a years supply of property insurance in case anything happens to our valuables. I know all this is adding up, and believe me I hate paying for insurance too. But you can’t put a price on piece of mind. We both use''World Nomads''for short term trips, but for extended trips (like a year in Africa) I use''IMG Global.''Our property is insured through''Clements Worldwide''. \xa0I have not had to make a claim yet.''Are you excited to drive through Africa yet!?''Read Next:''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''What’s the Deal with Travel in Zimbabwe?''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''What You Need to Pack for Overlanding Africa''was last modified:''November 15th, 2017''by''Natasha''When we crossed the Noordoewer border post from''South Africa''and into Namibia we had no expectations. We knew we were in for a month of vast landscapes, chilling\xa0coastlines, amazing wildlife, and a unique\xa0Africa. Namibia is a country you should self-drive. Which from the sheer amount of rental cars we saw on the roads,\xa0is not just our opinion. Whether you are self-driving, on an overland tour, or flying into one of the many desert lodges in the country here are\xa015 Namibia travel tips to know before you go.''Namibia Travel Tips''Distances are\xa0long''We had started planning our Namibia trip months before we arrived. Initially, we set aside a week for the country, and were constantly scoffed at, for good reason too! We got responses\xa0like “You’ll spend your entire time driving,” or another Namibian told us “there is way too much to see for a week.”''They were right.''After just a few of these comments, we decided to re-evaluate our trip and changed our time in the country from one week to one month. Namibia is a huge country with plenty to offer visitors. Days are hot and distances between destinations\xa0are long. Unless you are flying from point to point I would suggest at least two weeks to hit the major sights, and three weeks if you don’t want to always be rushed and spend your whole holiday driving.''Fill up!''If you are self-driving in Namibia then be prepared to fill up every time you pass a fuel station. Like I mentioned, the distances between towns\xa0are huge and fuel is only available few and far between. We ended up picking up a map the first day we got to Namibia with all the\xa0filling stations marked\xa0throughout the country. Cash is always good to carry, but we had no problem paying with a credit card at the majority of gas stations.''Drink the tap water''We saw many visitors buying or ordering bottles of water everywhere. The water throughout most of Namibia, and especially in the cities, is safe for drinking. We always ordered tap water at restaurants and lodges. In the rare case that we were questioning the water, we turned to our''LifeStraw Go waterbottles''to ease our minds.''Also, keep in mind this is a desert country. Turn off the tap, don’t take long showers, and in general try to conserve water.''Temperatures are extreme''This is one Namibia travel tip I want to stress.''Namibia is a dry desert country and the heat is intense.''However, be aware that during the winter months nighttime can get very cool in the desert. If you are visiting in Namibia in the summertime pack things like shorts, tank tops, and sandals. In the winter the daytime will still be warm, but for evenings bring\xa0some extra layers. Check out''Africa packing list''for ideas on what to pack.''Namibia eats electronics''Pack up any electronics well before heading to Namibia. The dry air and dust really seep its way into the crevices of''laptops''and camera equipment. Thankfully, Cameron and I both keep our MacBook’s protected with a''heavy-duty laptop sleeve''as well as keep our cameras and drone protected with quality cases.. We left Namibia without having to replace everything, but if are a little more lax with your gear you may end up with some unwanted Namibian relics.''Namibia just doesn’t eat electronics, though. I can’t count the number of people we saw changing their tires on the Namibian roads. The main\xa0roads in Namibia are paved, but the vast majority\xa0are gravel, sand, and salt.\xa0Add to that some heavy corrugation and it is a recipe that will eat away at car tires. Long story short, always travel with an extra spare tire in Namibia. Keeping an eye on the tires is also crucial many unknowing tourists shred\xa0their tires because they fail to watch the tires, driving on them once they’ve gone flat.''The Namibian Dollar equals the South African Rand''Namibia is part of the''Common Monetary Area''along with South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland. The Namibian Dollar is 1:1 with the Rand. This means the South African Rand is widely accepted in Namibia.\xa0We rarely had trouble using our credit cards in Namibia, so make sure to pick a''good travel card and rack up those points.''Lonesome Times''At points we drove for hours in Namibia and never saw a soul on the road. With a population of only two million, you\xa0should expect this. If you are self-driving it’s important to know the basics of your car in case you have a breakdown – or else you could be stranded for a few hours in the heat. And most importantly carry plenty of drinking water in case of emergencies.''We got sim cards with''TN Mobile''(another provider is''MTC)''for emergencies and for data use. Unfortunately there was no signal outside of the towns, so if you think your''Namibian sim card''can get you out of trouble think again! This is why we would advise using MTC, which, has better coverage on the roads.''Read More:''{''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''}''Namibia is a land of natural beauty''Namibia is a land of natural beauty''. The landscapes in Namibia have an ability to make a traveller feel small. The landscapes at times feel other worldly. It is a land of extreme contrasts as the Namib Desert goes from a fiery warm in the day to a deathly cool at night. And when the lights go out at night a fireworks display of stars comes out on display.''Soak in the varying landscapes''We had spent two weeks in Southern Namibia and completely forgot what trees even looked like. All we saw were desert sands and boulders. However,''when you arrive in the\xa0North'', or the small section of Namibia called the Caprivi Strip, life flourishes. Namibia isn’t''all''dry desert, you just have to travel a little bit further and explore!''Just like their neighbors''South Africa wasn’t the only country under an Apartheid regime. Namibia (which used to be''South-West Africa'') also had''laws separating white and black people''. Apartheid wasn’t as bad in Namibia as in South Africa, but it left a deep social divide that can\xa0still be seen today.''ALIENS!''Venture into the Namib Desert to find the mysterious fairy circles of Africa. There is no explanation to the circles – some scientist say termites cause the circles, while others say it’s the''“footprints of the gods.”''We say aliens!''Amazing wildlife sightings''We found''Etosha National Park''to be one of the greatest wildlife spectacles in Africa! Within one hour of our game drive, we had already seen giraffe, zebra, jackals, ostriches, wildebeest, and lions! I’m not sure if the best part was the abundance of wildlife or the fact that I only paid 80 NAD ($5) to enter and there were hardly any cars on the road (''unlike the Kruger'').''Not only are the national parks impressive, but we also smelled our way past thousands of Cape Fur Seals and their pups at the Cape Cross Seal Colony, got lost in pink with the flamingos at Walvis Bay, and tracked down hundreds of oryx in the desert with our Land Cruiser.''Welcome to Germany''Namibia was colonized by Germany in the 19''th''century, and much of that German influence is still prevalent today. Swakopmund and Luderitz show stark evidence with their art nouveau architecture, monuments, beerhouses, and meaty cuisines. At least 30,000 Namibians speak German and names like Hendrik and Hans are common.''Not only\xa0is the country a little Bavaria, but just about every foreigner we met in the country was from Germany. Namibia is quite the hotspot for Germans right now so practicing your beer drinking skills may be useful.''Vegans Beware''We found the food in Namibia to be very meaty and you may even get a little glance if you tell a Namibian you don’t eat meat. Despite this we found it possible to still be a vegetarian in the country. Grocery stores are well stocked with many produce imports from South Africa. Cities like Windhoek, Swakopmund, and Luderitz also offer many western luxuries like coffee shops and even pizza parlors!''If you’re staying at a lodge in Namibia''make sure to tell them your dietary requirements beforehand so that they are prepared.''No Safety Concerns''We never once felt unsafe or threatened in Namibia. I also believe that solo female travelers will have a pleasant time traveling the country and shouldn’t face any annoyances. In saying that, we decided to skip out on Windhoek as we didn’t want to travel the country to spend time in a capital city.''and finally, our month through Namibia…''Subscribe to our''YouTube Channel''for more adventures!''Plan Your Trip to Namibia''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Namibia:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home in Namibia try Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Tours in Namibia:''If you’re not much of a driver check out some of these''Namibian tours.''Flights to Namibia:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Namibia fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''You May Also Like:''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''The Ideal Northern Namibia Road Trip Route''Experiencing Wolwedans Dunes Lodge and More in Namibia''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''15 Namibia Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''was last modified:''March 15th, 2018''by''Natasha''We may have spent''seven months in Africa this year,''but we''just''experienced\xa0one of those crazy African borders at the Kazungula ferry. We finished up our time in Botswana and making our way north through Zambia. For the next month we will be hopping between Zimbabwe and Zambia!''We had an amazing time exploring the Okavango Delta and Chobe National Park, but there was one thing that had been looming over our head – the Botswana/Zambian border. The hectic Kazungula border crossing and ferry are notoriously soul sucking. We knew self-driving over the border would\xa0go one of two ways – easy peasy or''painstakingly difficult.''On the Kazungula Ferry''A few days before we were set to cross, we were hanging out at the''Old Bridge Backpackers in Maun''chatting to a few Zimbabweans about our adventure. We told them we were heading to Zambia and Zimbabwe next with Charlie and they explained that we absolutely needed a police clearance to drive into those countries. A police clearance is a certificate stating that you own your car, it is not stolen, and that you can drive it over borders. Police certificates should be issued from the country your car is registered from, a big problem for us since we are not allowed back in South Africa.''I had never heard of this Police Clearance before, but we’ve been having a decent amount of trouble as self-drivers with our car in Africa so we didn’t want to take anything to chance. We went to the Maun Police Office and showed them our papers and asked them for a police clearance. It was a weekend and this is Africa so they wouldn’t issue us one, but they assured us that we would be fine and we had all the right papers for our car.''In case you missed it we bought our own car in Cape Town''but had to register it under a friends name because we couldn’t obtain a TRN as foreigners. So we have the proof of purchase, registration, and a power of attorney over the vehicle. There is nothing explaining what exactly we will need to cross borders anywhere…this is Africa after all. (I wonder how many times I will say that in twelve months?) Since there is so much vagueness about regulations in Africa we have no choice but to trust the locals or ask in''Facebook groups like these online.''We woke up at 5:30 am and made our way to Kazungula border with our papers and Charlie in hand. There are semi trucks lined up for days outside the border waiting to get cleared for the Kazungula ferry, but private vehicles can drive right past them to the border. Needless to say, this land border is the most chaotic I have seen but since it is the meeting point between''Zimbabwe'', Botswana, Zambia, and''Namibia''it should be expected.''Welcome to Africa,''I thought as we drove up. Long gone are the easy days of driving around''South Africa'',''Swaziland'', and''Namibia''. Oh no – we hadn’t\xa0seen this part\xa0Africa since our wonderful''month in Mozambique''. This is what we came here for, why we created''“Hashtag Africa,''” and why we spent a small fortune to buy a Land Cruiser. We’re doing this.''There were touts and buskers everywhere as we pulled up to Botswana immigration office. Cam and I, therefore, decided not to leave the car unattended at this border crossing. This proved to be a very good decision as during our whole three hours at the border, no one ever left the car alone. The first step was stamping out of Botswana – child’s play. Then came the hard part of getting the car out. Cam showed immigration the papers first, and because he didn’t have a “police clearance” like we feared they wouldn’t let us out of the country. I was in no way expecting this problem actually''leaving''Botswana. He came out frazzled an hour later after being turned around\xa0multiple times. Police clearances can take days to sort out and sometimes have to be done in the cars registration country.''I decided to try my luck while Cam stayed at the car. I went into the bustling\xa0office and made my way to the youngest, nicest looking woman in the room. I claimed that I was confused as to how I can get my car out of Botswana and told her I had all my papers. She looked at my papers briefly and stamped the car right on out. There is no proper system in Africa – so don’t ever give up.''We left Botswana and made our way to the Kazungula ferry crossing. Every runner around is begging for your attention and attempting to “help” you out. Unless you want help then don’t bother talking to him or her. We had one drunken guy hanging around our car the entire time asking for money. He had red and white reflective stickers that he wanted to sell us for 200 Kwacha ($20). These are mandatory in Zambia/Zimbabwe, but there wass no way in hell we would ever pay that much for stickers. We kept telling him to leave our car and us alone. I knew from the get-go this wouldn’t be easy.''Once we stamped out of Botswana and got to the ferry crossing we found two ferries to choose from. There was a Botswana ferry marked by the Botswana flag or a Zambian ferry marked with a Zambian flag. The Botswana ferry cost 200 Pula (about $19) and the Zambian ferry costs 150 Kwacha (about $15). We were carrying USD and with an almost 10:1 ratio on both currencies and no line for either ferry we took the cheaper Zambian vessel. However, I would recommend taking whatever ferry is quicker.''Mr. Drunk Red Shirt man decided to follow us and slapped stickers on our car while we weren’t looking. This infuriated me and I kept asking him to stop and to leave us alone. He told me that “my husband” told him to do it, and he told Cam that “his wife” told him to do it – both of us\xa0knew this was not\xa0true. Don’t let them fool you with this, as it is obviously a scam. We tried hard to ignore Mr. Drunk Red Shirt for the remainder of our time at the border.''After reading about a few of similar from''Maggie in Africa''about the Kazungula Border Crossing we decided it would be much easier if we hired a fixer\xa0on the Zambian side to sort us through everything. We found a helpful (sober) man with his own “agency” to help us out. He initially asked us for 200 Kwacha, but I was not paying more than 150 Kwacha so eventually, he took that rate. Always know your currency and exchange rates before getting to the border.''I guarded the car while Cam spent the next hour sorting out the carbon tax, third party insurance, visas, road tax, and council tax. Together, the two of us spent about $280 entering Zambia with our car – in other words; it was a very expensive day.''Where did our money go?''Visas''A single entry visa into Zambian will cost Americans $50 payable in USD. We needed a double entry valid for 90 days. The double entry cost us $80, but make sure they fill out your visa right. The customs official I went to got my first and last name switched and I had to ask him to redo it.''Insurance''The next biggest fee was our third party insurance, which cost us $50. There was no information on this, so I have no idea if this was the correct price or if we were taken for yet another ride. \xa0We did find out later that we could have negotiated this price down, but with little to no information, we had no idea that we could do this.''Council tax''60 Kwacha – only payable in Kwacha. I suppose this goes to the council…''Carbon Tax''We paid 200 Kwacha – payable in cash only for an engine over 4000 cc. This was the most expensive option and engines with less cc cost less.''Road Tax''$20 for South African registered vehicles.''Fixers Fee''We paid our fixer $12. In hindsight, we are not sure if it was a good idea or worth the cost. He certainly made things easy at a very confusing crossing. However, we probably could have figured it out ourselves by spending more time at the border.''We had to show all of our paperwork for the car and we were not asked for a carnet or for a police clearance certificate on the Zambian side. All they needed was the proof of ownership (in our case a Power of Attorney letter) and registration papers.''Our fixer had collected all the fees and told us we owed him one lump sum in USD at the end. Our fixer had “loaned” us the Kwacha that we needed for the Carbon and Council tax. He initially gave Cam\xa0a 7:1 exchange rate (Kwacha to USD) and claimed that was the correct exchange rate. Another scam – I guess he didn’t realize we were Americans yet and knew the correct dollar amount. We knew that it was 10:1 ratio and that he was just trying to rip us off. After some mild bartering, Cam\xa0got him down to proper exchange rate.''We ended up paying our runner a grand fee of $12 ($2 more than I had agreed to) to organize all of the Zambian paperwork for us. We saw groups of people that had entered the border crossing before us trying to sort out their vehicles themselves and I want to note that they were still there when we left. In fact, they were only at the first stop in the immigration process. So, depending on your level of patience and time I would recommend spending the money and hiring a local to save you from a headache.''Finally, we had our paperwork and were on our way. But not before Mr. Drunk Red Shirt man made one last attempt to harass us for 200 Kwacha for the stickers he slapped on our vehicle without asking. We ended up giving him $2 to make him just go away, but he made our\xa0three hours much more difficult and annoying in''both''Botswana and Zambia.''Although the border was difficult and left a big dent in our wallets we were heading to one of the most beautiful places in Africa – stay tuned.''General Advice for the Kazungula Ferry Border Crossing''We expect this to be one of the worst borders we cross in Africa – fingers crossed!''Don’t come hungry; you could be here for a while''Watch your things and your car. We are driving a big Land Cruiser and just about every Joe Schmo was eyeing the car. Maybe the thought it was a cool car (because it is!) or maybe they had other ideas. Either way, I’m happy that we were able to always have one person at the car while the other was able to do things.''The biggest thing for us was that our car is registered in someone else’s name and all we have is a Power of Attorney letter giving us legal rights over the vehicle. I believe that if you outright own your vehicle and have all the papers or are heading back into Botswana within 30 days it\xa0will be\xa0a much easier time.''There doesn’t seem to be many hard-set rules here. As the case for Cameron getting turned away and denied crossing, while I was able to smoothly get all the paperwork stamped.''Plan to be at the border for at least 2 hours. Arrive early in the day for the quickest turnaround.''There are a few banks and Bureau de change offices in Kasane town to get USD for the border. They were not issuing Kwacha at this time of writing, but you may be able to get a local to do this for you at the border for a very bad exchange rate. Note that currency that will come in handy here are USD, Pula, and Kwacha. No South African Rand will be accepted.''There is also a Barclays Bank and a few independent change Bureaus in Livingstone should you have any cash that you need to swap. We found a Barclays bank in the Avani shopping center right near the Vic Falls Bridge that gave a good rate and you could pull USD out with a card with the teller.''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''The Great Kazungula Ferry Border Crossing''was last modified:''October 4th, 2017''by''Natasha''The Northern section of Namibia is much more varied than Southern Namibia in terms of flora, fauna, and people. Here you can find what is often referred to as the Skeleton Coast, a coastal German enclave, true wilderness, and innumerable wildlife. Our Northern Namibia road trip route stretched from Walvis Bay on the coast all the way across the country and to the end of the Caprivi Strip. Stops along the way included entrancing tribal villages, lush green forests, and the famous Etosha National Park.''Our last post detailing travel in Southern Namibia ended at the Tropic of Capricorn.''So, that is where we will pick back up.\xa0We arrived in Walvis Bay, Namibia in dire need of an escape from the desert heat. We were about two weeks into our month-long''road trip through Namibia''with our trusty Land Cruiser, Charlie. We had already driven around Fish River Canyon, through the sands of the Kalahari, and watched the sun rise over the highest sand dunes on earth. Temperatures in the desert had soared to 40+ Celsius. So, by the time we drove into a gloomy Walvis Bay we were relieved.''A Northern Namibia Road Trip Route''The Namibian Coast''Walvis Bay''Walvis Bay gets looked over in comparison to its sister, Swakopmund, and for good reason. That’s not to say that Walvis Bay is a bad place. In fact, it may be the best option around; however, it all depends on what you’re looking for. The city of Walvis Bay on the coast of Namibia is the country’s chief port and home to around 35,000 flamingos. No, that’s not an overestimate. 35,000 greater and lesser flamingos roam the shores of Walvis Bay. There is also the fascinating Pelican Point, a natural sand spit that stretches out into the ocean.''On arrival, we were greeted with a windy 17C. It was chilly and therefore we were happy. We were able to put on our jackets one last time before we faced the heat and humidity of Africa. In Walvis Bay, we stayed at a lovely Airbnb. For us, the stopover was needed to unwind and catch up on the blog. Our last week in Cape Town was spent running around attempting to prepare for''#HashtagAfrica''. More than a few things fell through the cracks like maintaining poor Charlie. Our Land Cruiser was in dire need of new tires and some serious TLC. We bought some new tires at $3,400 NAD a piece and then cried after we looked at our recent credit card transactions.''We took the time to explore Pelican Point with our new tires. We found massive pelicans, seals, and plenty of more flamingos while driving around the salt flats that compose Pelican Point. Looking back on the weathered''Swakopmund''Traveling through Southern Africa there are a number of stops that are on every tour operator’s schedule. Places like''Swakopmund,''Vic Falls, and Cape Town. Swakopmund is the city in Namibia to be seen at. It is a hip German town right along the Skeleton Coast. The city seems to hum with Namibians and tourists alike, but still retains its sleepy coastal charm.''“Swakop” makes for a great\xa0base to stop and stock up on supplies, grab a cappuccino, and gather your bearings before you leave “comfortable” Africa. You can find old school German colonial architecture that looks out of place and like much of Namibia it is chock full of German tourists. There seems to be a serious draw for German’s to head to Namibia to live out their former colonial past and I can see the big draw especially for Swakopmund.\xa0The town has lots of old styled German homes, a waterfront, pier, hip coffee shops, a craft brewery, and a number of hotels. The main draws for tourists to the town are the various activities on offer. Everything from skydiving to sand boarding, and quad biking are available for a very reasonable price.''Check guesthouse rates here''Things to check out:''Slowtown Coffee Roasters'': We’ve bought a kilo of their delicious roast and still have it in the back of our truck now. They also have tasty\xa0baked goods.''Skeleton Coast''The Skeleton Coast goes in traveler’s book as one of the strangest places on earth. It’s similar to Death Valley or the Danakil Depression in\xa0Ethiopia. When the Portuguese sailors first found the deadly stretch of coastline they referred to it as''As Areias do Inferno''. The translation from Portuguese is “The Sands of Hell.” It’s little hard to understand why. The Skeleton Coast holds undeniable tragic beauty. Massive sand dunes raise up from the beach, gusts of cold wind screech across the earth, and quite literally skeletons from animals, ships, and man dot the coastline. A shipwreck here back in the day meant almost certain death.''Despite being one of the most inhospitable places on earth for man there are species that flourish here. The Cape Cross seal colony is a site to be seen in Namibia. Along the rocky point, hundreds of thousands of fur seals flourish. We arrived in mid-November right when the seals give birth to pups. The sound of thousands of seals barking and pups crying was deafening and amazing. The most prominent thing that literally hits visitors in the face is the smell. Anyone that has been close to a seal before can speak to attest to the odor. That odor times one thousand and it will make you almost gag. Being genius travelers, we are used small pieces of cotton with rose geranium oil on them to cancel out the smell. Worked like a charm.''To access the Skeleton Coast one must head up the C34 from Swakopmund. The cold Benguela Current creates some of the oddest weather conditions on earth in the desert environment. The coast is windy, cold, and often blanketed in dense fog. It is a large reason for the sheer number of shipwrecks that now lie along the coast. You can drive all the way up to Torra Bay in the North where you can find a campsite popular with fishermen who come for an awesome catch. Not to mention the famous marine life that can spotted from the shores such as killer whales, humpback whales, and benguela dolphins.''Tips For Driving the Skeleton Coast''The Southern half is accessible to self drivers via the C34. It is a salt road in very good condition, feels like driving on pavement.''Camping is available at''Terrance Bay Resort''30 miles North of Torra Bay.''The park is only accessible during daylight hours at the two entry gates. Ugab river in the South and\xa0Springbokwasser in the North.''Buy a current map with the petrol stations and know the range on your vehicle. Our vehicle has a range of around 700km+. So we were fine to push through the entirety of the park.''Crossing Namibia''Etosha National Park''Etosha National Park''is arguably one of the best national parks of Namibia, but it comes with a catch. It can be dusty and unbearable hot for an endless amount of miles. This creates incredible animal concentration at the water holes as zebra, giraffe, hyenas, and all walks of life come from kilometers away in order to have a sip of water. This is what draws wildlife enthusiasts to\xa0Etosha. Instead of spending hours staring at the bush in search of an animal visitors park their vehicle on a watering hole and watch the wildlife come to them. All of Africa’s finest are all on display here and there are plenty to be seen.''Our arrival into Etosha came after driving up the Skeleton Coast and through Damaraland. The stench of the seals traveled with us soaking into our clothes, hair, and skin. Our priority was bathing. I would say we found the most suiting places to wash the smell off. Our room at''Gondwana’s Etosha Safari Camp''included an awesome elephant butt shower.''Check rates here!''After a much-needed shower, we headed to the main lodge decorated in the style of the famous township in Namibia called Oshebeena. The lodge has a boma with live music every night and entertainment. This “township” lodge has an awesome vibe with a laid-back (and cheap) bar, billiards table, curios shop, and pool area.''We spent the next day driving through the park. The road conditions are\xa0good\xa0and water is, unfortunately, scarce. The animals misfortune does make for some terrific sightings, however. The weather in true Namibian fashion was HOT! My midday both us and the animals had to go into hiding. We managed to make our way to the''Halali camp''with in the middle of the park to have lunch. The camp also has a swimming pool, which we would suggest you have your swim suits with you to take advantage of. Our first leg in the park was largely uneventful besides one wonderful sighting at a watering hole filled with springbok, zebras, ostrich, and then watched as a tower of giraffe approached the watering hole to take a drink.''After spending our afternoon waiting out the heat we set back out for the Etosha Safari Camp at the Southern gate. The second half of our day proved to be much more successful. We stumbled across a rhino who spent her time walking back and forth along the road not paying us mind at all!''Driving across the park takes time as with many national parks in Africa. This is\xa0due to the prevalence of wildlife, speed limits, and track conditions. Although Etosha park has well maintained gravel roads some of the roads are badly corrugated. \xa0We did see sedans making their way across the park, but would recommend traveling with a larger vehicle.''As the evening fell on Etosha and our time was coming to an end we made our way to one last watering hole. It just happened to be our best sighting of the day. We found a lion sitting on a fresh kill while a black backed jackal and two hyenas circled around waiting for the scraps. We watching the animals until the 6 p.m. closing time and returned back to the safari camp hungry and tired. After a full meal and good nights sleep, we moved to check out the''Etosha Safari Lodge'', just two minutes down the road, for a change of pace.\xa0We had plans to drive across the park the next days and spend two days exploring Etosha from the Eastern side. With this in mind, we chose to relax at the gorgeous lodge and take in some long days by the pool watching the giraffes in the distance. Of course, we always had a cool gin and tonic in hand.''Check rates and availability here''Each room here had its own porch that looked out towards the national park. While sipping our drinks from the main deck we spotted a herd of Zebra and a tower of giraffe. As the night came to an end we watched a thunderstorm roll over Etosha from the lodge’s elevated deck.''We’re certain that the park has some well managed campsites, but after our first experience in Sossusvlei, we decided to opt outside of the park and spend two lovely days at the Onguma campsite at the Eastern gate. It takes roughly four hours to drive from the Southern gate to the Eastern gate. Our second day of driving in Etosha was not nearly as eventful as our first. We saw a few zebra, springbok, wildebeest, and giraffe.''The campsites at Onguma will spoil campers. Each campsite comes with a private shower, bathroom, kitchen area, laundry sink, power points, and plenty of shade. Combine that with a pool, shop, WiFi, and a nice lounge overlooking a watering hole. It is also a private concession and campers can take a game drive through their park that has large game including predators. Not only did we find the campsites here way nicer, but they were much cheaper than the park campsites too!''Etosha National Park Facts''“Etosha” means “big white place,” which refers to the Etosha Salt Pan. The park covers an area of roughly\xa020,000 square kilometers. It is the second largest national park in Namibia.''Etosha National Park''is home 114 mammal species. All accommodation within the park is managed by Namibian Wildlife Resorts – a Namibian government run company. The center pan that park derives its name from is\xa04731km² large.''Click here for maps of Etosha National Park''.''Etosha Park Entrance Times''Open: Sunrise – changed on a weekly basis''Close: Sunset – changed on a weekly basis''Park Entry Fees (enjoy these they are some of the cheapest in Africa):''Namibian'': N$30.00 per day''SADC:''N$60.00 per day''International:''N$80.00 per day''Campsites outside of the park''We are not the biggest fan of the Namibian National parks campsites. They are good campsites, but we found a better value at the private camps.''To the South at the Anderson Gate we recommend the''Gondwana Collection’s Campsite''. (''Cost:''N$160.00''per person)''To the East at\xa0Von Lindequist Gate we recommend the''Onguma Campsite''(''Cost:''N$ 220.00 per person)''The Caprivi Strip''The Caprivi Strip feels like another world in comparison to the rest of Namibia. The small strip of Namibia is at a higher elevation and traveling to the region you cross the Otjihavera Mountains and climb a gradual hill for what feels like forever. We found several\xa0relaxing places to stop on our exploration of the Caprivi Strip. Our first being along the banks of the Okavango river where we were able to get a taste of the local culture and spot a hippo or two. Afterward, we had a frustrating day getting our car worked on in Rundu before booking it across the Caprivi to Namushasha.''Okavango River''The Okavango River plays a pretty big role in tourism in Africa, but we’ll touch on that later. Our first experience of the famous river was in Namibia just outside of the large town of Rundu. Here we stayed at the''Hakusembe Lodge''. Unlike many rivers the Okavango river does not flow out towards the sea, but instead inland towards the center of the continent. Eventually it dumps out into the Okavango Delta, an incredible wildlife region.''Check rates and availability here!''Watching a storm roll over the Okavango''When we entered the Caprivi strip we finally felt we had arrived at the Africa pictured in our heads and displayed in photos. Exotic birds flew from the trees while villagers paddled downstream in mokoros. The Hakusembe lodge is located just outside of the Namibian outpost of Rundu and across the river from Angola. It’s a buzzing town full of Angolans and Namibians.\xa0While Rundu has nothing to draw tourists of significance it makes for a wonderful stop to relax during a trip to fully enjoy and stop at while crossing the Caprivi strip. Days can be spent relaxing along the river watching hippos and crocodiles and life in Angola.''Mbunzu Living Museum''The highlight of our stop here was a living museum located next to the lodge. The museum was set up by a Namibian nonprofit called the Living Culture Foundation. The Mbunzu living museum is a school for traditional culture and a community based business.\xa0It is aimed at preserving the culture of the Kavango people and provides an additional source of income for villagers. We spent an hour and a half learning about the different aspects of their culture, although full day trips can be arranged. We loved our time at the living museum and think it is such a unique and valuable way to preserve the culture of the local people.''Mbunzu Living Museum Rates''Short Program:''1.5 hours Introduction to culture with demonstrations of various aspects of traditional life (N$150.00 per person)''Full Day:''4+ hours for a day spent learning about the culture and learn to make your own crafts. (N$280.00 per person)''Craftsmanship workshop:''Learn about the craft making. (N$150.00 per person)''Namushasha''We knew Charlie needed a good servicing. So, on our way from Rundu to Namushasha we decided we’d make a morning stop in Rundu and have him properly looked at… operating on Africa time, we left Rundu seven hours later. It was around 5:00 p.m. and we had four hours of driving ahead of us. Little did we know that our drive would coincide with the start of the rainy season. Driving at night is not recommend in Africa, but we ran into this unavoidable situation anyways.\xa0We drove through the Caprivi Strip National Park at night in torrential rains with “elephant crossing” warnings every 5 kilometers. It was late in the night by the time we arrived at the''Namushasha River Lodge'', but thankfully we made it in one piece. We had the foresight to have called the lodge in advance and warned them of our late arrival. The lodge was kind enough to put us up in their honeymoon room, which was about three times the size of our old NYC apartment. There was a full meal waiting for us at our private table to enjoy as well!''Check Rates Here!''The next morning we awoke to vervet monkeys outside and views of a Zambezi river\xa0plain. Of our entire tour of Namibia Namushasha offered the most amazing views. In this lush setting, we could see\xa0herds of various antelopes running across through flood plains and crocodiles lazily cruising down the river in search of lunch.''There was also a diverse birdlife here as well. We saw a variety of birds from the comfort and privacy of our back porch set high in the trees. From here we were able to take in a variety of activities. Visitors to the lodge have the option of evening game cruises down the river in a boat, a visit to a cultural center, or a game drive in the neighboring''Bwabwata National Park''.''How is the Caprivi\xa0section part of Namibia?''The story comes in the form of a bit of a scam if you ask me. The German Chancellor\xa0Leo Von Caprivi\xa0was looking for a water route to link Southwestern German Africa (Namibia) with the Indian Ocean where they had colonial rights to Zanzibar (Tanzania). Legendary explorer Cecil Rhodes knowing of Victoria Falls sold Caprivi\xa0the rights for an impossible river passage to the Indian Ocean.''Where we didn’t go in Namibia.''A month in the country felt too short. Traveling long-term means blasting through to each place with only a day or two. This would prove to be absolutely exhausting and not fun. While some may cover more ground in a shorter amount of time we cannot. Here are the places of note to visit when planning your trip that we failed to cover.''Spitzkoppe''Northwestern Namibia''Northern Skeleton Coast''Quiver Tree Forest''Waterberg Plateau''Quick Help to Northern Namibia''Capital: Windhoek''Currency: The Namibian Dollar, equivalent to the South African Rand''Borders are hassle free for self-drivers.''Self-Driving is the most popular way of getting around Namibia. Distances are great and petrol stations are scarce so buy a map and plan accordingly.''We were\xa0able to get around with credit card for a majority of our time in Namibia.''Most roads around the country are in very good condition, however, expect corrugation and some bumpy rides.''Visitors will be able to get by just fine with English in Namibia. We found most Namibians to be exceptionally friendly.''We experienced no bribes, hassles, or police corruption in the country during our month in the country.''We felt very safe traveling in Namibia. We did not go to Windhoek as we felt we didn’t need to see another big city.''Visitors will be able to get just about anything they need in Swakopmund and Windhoek. Don’t expect common amenities in many of the other towns.''MTC and TN Mobile are the two main cell phone providers in the country. We received a promotion for 1.3 GB of data for $N40 for one week with TN Mobile Jiva Surfer. Cell phone service was only available in towns and cities.''We felt that Namibia was very “western” feeling and felt much like South Africa. It wasn’t until we got into Damaraland and then the Caprivi region that we felt we were in Africa.''It is not recommended to drive at night in Namibia. Especially in the north where there are cattle, goats, and donkey grazing on the roads.''Thank you to our partner''The Gondwana Collection''who helped make this post possible. We were very fortunate to partner with them in Namibia. We stand behind their brand and believe them to be a positive force within the tourism industry in Namibia. Their efforts towards conservation, job creation, value, environmental impact, and guest happiness are beyond commendable.\xa0 As always all opinions are our own.''Read More From Around The World:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Ideal Northern Namibia Road Trip Route''was last modified:''December 2nd, 2017''by''Cameron''Looking for the best hotels in Italy? We consider ourselves experts on travel in Italy and have stayed in all manner of accommodation. Italy certainly embodies most travel dreams with its history, world-famous cuisine, rustic countryside, and flamboyant culture.\xa0It’s the one country we continue to return even after visiting a dozen times.''The Best Hotels in Italy''Villa d’Este, Lake Como''Originally a summer palace,''Villa D’este'', was\xa0built on Lake Como in the 16th century. The hotel is grand, elegant, and exactly what you would expect to find on the famous Lake Como.''This exquisite hotel plays host to a slew of high-profile guests. This hotel is old school cool and with one of the best locations on Lake Como. The staff in the hotel are one of its greatest draws due to their decades of experience entertaining and serving. It’s institutions like this that are easy to add to the list of best hotels in Italy.''Check Prices Here!''Grand Hotel a Villa Feltrinelli, Lake Garda''The interiors in''this former estate''are sure to fill you Italian dreams. The magnificent villa was once the family home of Mussolini and has some serious character. With only 21 rooms the hotel allows for guests to enjoy the intimacy of the estate. The entrance hall features coffered ceilings and original 19th-century wood carved benches.''On the walls are Italian works of art and antique Venetian mirrors. With a two Michelin star restaurant serving guests on a pergola overlooking to stunning Lake Garda meals\xa0are a serious\xa0affair.''Check the Prices!''A photo posted by Grand Hotel Villa Feltrinelli (@villafeltrinelli)''on''Feb 17, 2016 at 8:52am PST''The Gritti Palace, Venice''This hotel is arguably the best hotel in all of Italy. It is an institution and occupies one of the''best spots on the Grand Canal in Venice.''The palace is situated directly across from Santa Maria Della Salute one of Venice’s greatest churches and an incredible sight. Via private jetty, guests are able\xa0to avoid the tourist crowds on their way to the hotel.''Visitors will have a hard time finding what to draw their attention to in the sumptuous palace because even the frescoed floors are masterful works of art. Once you’re able to lift your eye off the floor you’ll find marble-clad walls, priceless paintings, and original antiques from the palace of a former Doge of Venice. There is hardly a better or more fitting place to experience Venice than from The Gritti Palace. Our first time in Venice we even tracked down the hotel to see the famous interior.''Check for Prices!''Villa Cora, Florence''With all of the bells and whistles of a modern hotel,''this new-comer''on the Italian hotel scene places guests in their very own Tuscan dreams.\xa0The centerpiece here the 19th-century villa constructed by Baron Oppenheim, one of the principal financiers of the Suez Canal.''The villa is Italian decadence with parquet floors, monstrous mirrors, crystal chandeliers and a whole series of reception rooms. Guest at Villa Cora will not have to worry about being pampered because the hotel also houses one of the best spas in Florence offering a wide range of services.''The services and amenities do not stop there with a free shuttle bus that will pick you up anywhere in the city and an outdoor heated pool open year round. In the summer, the rooftop buzzes with guests and outside visitors\xa0at\xa0the champagne bar there to enjoy\xa0the warm\xa0Tuscan evenings.''Check Prices Here!''A photo posted by Villa Cora (@villacorahotel)''on''Oct 26, 2016 at 4:22am PDT''Babuino 181, Rome''With all of these stately villas and palaces, we needed some Italian chic in this list, and there is no better place to do than Rome. In steps, the''Babuino 181''the modern hotel is small and tucked away in Rome’s most stylish\xa0neighborhood, also known as the Fashion Triangle.''The only traffic in the area is the pedestrian kind that dies down once the sun goes down making for quiet nights in the heart of Rome. The interior is a blend of art-deco and modern Italian making for a wonderful atmosphere. Although there is no restaurant on site, you are in the heart of Rome with plenty of fantastic eats at your doorstep.''Check Prices Here!''A photo posted by Rome Luxury Suites (@romeluxurysuites)''on''Apr 12, 2016 at 8:34am PDT''Il San Pietro di Positano, Amalfi Coast''It’s pretty much impossible to not include''San Pietro''on this list. It is likely the most glamorous hotel in Italy and it has a fabulous setting along the Amalfi Coast. With no sign of a hotel from the outside, the hotel is carved into the cliffs of the famous coastline. This offers guest unparalleled views of the deep blues of the Mediterranean Sea.''The retro-glam hotel has had\xa0return visitors from the likes of George Clooney and Julia Roberts so you know there is something special about this place.''There isn’t a want visitors go without here. The hotel caters to almost every service imaginable including a spa, restaurants, tennis court, bars, and a private beach. When guests lay their head down at night they’ll rest easy with views of the ocean from their room’s private terrace.''Check Prices Here!''A photo posted by Il San Pietro di Positano (@ilsanpietrodipositano)''on''Aug 5, 2016 at 11:41pm PDT''Bulgari, Milan''Located in''Brera, Milan’s artists’ quarter, the''Bulgari''provides guests a relaxing atmosphere in its private garden. The hotel interiors are decorated with stylish Italian furniture while black and brown color tones prevail. While textures are\xa0sleek\xa0with granite, teak, oak\xa0and bronze\xa0fittings.''One of the focal points of the hotel is the spa pool,\xa0a 12-metre long gold mosaic pool or the\xa0glass hammam with\xa0stone seats. The hotel attracts Milan’s most posh and jet-set elite. Elements like an a-la-carte breakfast that include lobsters and champagne don’t go unnoticed.''Check Prices Here!''A photo posted by Flawless Milano (@flawlessmilano)''on''Jan 14, 2017 at 5:58am PST''Borgo Santo Pietro, Tuscany''Set in a remote area of Tuscany this hotel is sure to offer guest an intimate Tuscan getaway. The rooms at''Borgo Santo Pietro''are all individually decorated and showcase an impressive\xa0collection of antique furniture.''The furniture may be antique''the level of service is not, guests are even presented with his and hers iPads upon arrival. The restaurant Meo Modo\xa0just\xa0won a Michelin star.''While the Treehouse Bar,\xa0offers guests options such as\xa0pizzas, salads, and grilled meat or fish. On a hot Tuscan day, the pool provides spectacular views of the surrounding countryside. This hotel is the perfect Tuscan escape blending the old and new.''Check Prices Here!''A photo posted by Borgo Santo Pietro (@borgosantopietro)''on''May 20, 2016 at 12:28am PDT''There you have it, our list of the best hotels in Italy. This list is by no means definitive,\xa0as\xa0there are a plethora fabulous, fantastic, glamorous, decadent, luxurious, and stately hotels\xa0all over Italy. A holiday in Italy is tough to beat and select from any one of these splendid hotels in Italy with being a tough choice. Perhaps you should just stay at them all.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Italy''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to\xa0Italy:''Travelocity''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Car Rental in\xa0Italy:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Read Next:''The Best Hotels in Italy: Lake Como, Venice, Florence, Rome, & More''was last modified:''November 14th, 2017''by''Cameron''We’re big on becoming more eco-friendly in our travels. It’s why we are\xa0active in voicing our opinion about more sustainable travel. In our daily lives,\xa0we attempt to maintain a small footprint even when we travel.''Throughout our travels, we often camp, volunteer, participate in cleans, champion conservation, donate to non-profits, or celebrate the''eco-lodges''around the world making a difference. We make an active effort to reduce our waste and choose companies who strive to do the same.''We’ve talked about''the best eco-friendly products''and we’re always trying to reduce our own impact. However, there are so many ways you can become a more environmentally conscious traveller. It all starts with simple fixes.''Why Eco-Friendly Travel?''It has to do with what\xa0I’ve seen in life and what is left on my “bucket list.” I’ve seen\xa0hummingbirds in the Ecuadorian rainforests'',''followed\xa0elephants\xa0traversing the desert, dove into the wonders of the Indian Ocean, and wandered serene bamboo forests in Japan. The list could go on. Then I think about what lies for our\xa0future generations. Those who may not see the snow fall peacefully in the backyard, go diving in the\xa0Great Barrier Reef, or float along the Okavango Delta.''I grew up in Michigan''and every year we had snow on Christmas, and winters lasted a little too long for my liking. I even had to move South to escape the cold. The past few years, though? Temperatures during the holiday season are hitting record highs. When I was last\xa0home for Christmas the ground was not\xa0dusted in\xa0white, but instead, they were dead and mushy. I took the snow for granted.''It makes us sad for our planet, for our future\xa0generations, and for the naysayers who claim this is all just a “hoax.” However, there are many things that we\xa0can collectively do to be more conscious of our world when we are traveling and in our everyday lives.''Eco-Friendly\xa0Travel Tips''Turn off the lights''This is probably the most brainless thing to do. Turn off the lights when you are not using them, there’s no reason to have them on. One billion people live without electricity day to day, and that is usually what I think about when I see unneeded lights on. If you’re reading this, my\xa0guess is you are not one of those one billion people and can make a push for more eco-friendly travel habits.''Vote with your dollars''This is quite possibly how you can make the largest difference. Whether we want to admit it or not money makes the world go round. Almost all of our most environmentally destructive actions stem from financial gains. There is a flip side here. This means that choosing where you spend your money can make a big difference in how the tourism market grows.''For example, choosing to stay at eco-friendly hotels, participating in conservation efforts, or staying at eco-lodges can make a big difference. A lodge we visited,''Wolwedans'', was almost entirely self-sufficient in the middle of a desert and had made extraordinary efforts in conservation. They are only one example of many companies that exemplify sustainable travel and make the world a better place.''When you choose to spend your tourism dollars with eco-friendly businesses\xa0it paves the way for more businesses to follow suit.''We love staying in eco lodges''Switch to solar power''We’ve stayed in''many lodges that have switched to solar power''– and love it! It’s initially very expensive to set up, but the long-term cost is small. The sun rises in most places every day for no charge at all! We should make use of it. We always opt for accommodation with solar panels rather than grid powered if possible.''On a smaller scale try switching to solar powered products. We’ve been traveling with the Little Sun for six months and love it! (The company also gives back). We also like to purchase products like''solar powered lanterns''instead of''flashlights for camping''.''Not only are they cheaper than battery operated lanterns, but they are more durable. Now, we don’t have to worry about buying batteries!''Our Little Sun''Ditch the hair dryer''I haven’t put heat on my hair in over two years and I must say I love how healthy it feels. Aside, from that time a''crazy Serbian hairdresser trashed it''.''Hair dryers take up a ridiculous amount of electricity, space in your suitcase, and they dry out your hair. Consider ditching them and going all-natural. It’s an easy fix and such a small part to play. It’s not going to save the world, but every single step counts!''Turn off the taps''Turn off the water while brushing your teeth. Many people in the world don’t have the luxury of having water come out of their tap conveniently like we do in the west. \xa0Making a conscious effort to conserve water can go a long way. This is a no-brainer when it comes to eco-friendly travel.''Not everyone gets to turn on the tap and have fresh water''Decline plastic bags''Decline plastic bags while shopping. We travel with''reusable bags''for grocery store trips, or carry it if that is manageable. I love companies like Trader Joes who only use\xa0paper bags. I also love how grocery stores across Europe charge you for each plastic bag used, which makes the consumer more conscious.''Until this is implemented across the globe keep resisting that plastic everywhere. In North America, grocers provide you with as many bags as you want when you don’t really need them''(and it drives me insane).''We personally would rather stuff our hands full and walk out of the store than waste a plastic bags.''Help educate people''Going off this, many people around the world aren’t aware of the effects of plastic, littering, soil degradation. Companies like''LUSH''do a great job informing them. But as travelers, we can help too. Next time someone insists on giving you a plastic bag tell them that plastic doesn’t decompose. When you see someone littering''try not to scream''inform them of the effect that has on the environment. We all are people of this earth and should work together to protect it.''Collecting water samples in South Africa.''Travel with a water bottle''We both travel with a''Lifestraw Go Waterbottles''as they claim to filter out 98.9% of bacteria. These waterbottles\xa0greatly limit our plastic water bottle purchases. Saving us money and saving the world from yet another wasteful piece of one-time use plastic.''Unless we are in dire need of some cold water we always refill our Lifestraw right from the taps (and even rivers/lakes in some places). Haven’t gotten sick once! (Knock on wood). If you’re having a tough decision about the''best travel water bottle on the market''we’ve made a post to help you out!''Always ask for tap water''If we are anywhere outside of North America and ask for water with our meals we are almost always given a bottle of water. This is not only completely wasteful but will also cost us an additional $2-$3 per meal. Always specify that you want tap water at restaurants to avoid this (it’s free!).''Pick up the trash''Pick up any trash that you see floating about. Every little bit counts and it sets an example for others. I can’t even say its the most simple eco-friendly travel tip, but it certainly isn’t hard. Wherever we travel we find ourselves picking up trash even if it’s not ours. You should do the same! Leave a place better than you found it.''Make eco-friendly\xa0travel choices at the market''If there is an option then try to avoid any plastic at the grocery store. I usually find it easy with things like milk – where there are plastic and paper containers that the milk is filled in. Paper is degradable, plastic is not. And say NO to businesses that make wasteful decisions. Such as, individually wrapping every single apple/broccoli/pepper in plastic wrap. Ridiculous!''Reduce your beef intake''According to the Worldwatch Institute, 51% of global greenhouse-gas emissions are caused by animal agriculture. The land, water, and all other variables that go into the livestock sector in the US\xa0generate as much\xa0greenhouse gas emissions as all vehicles combined. In''Before the Flood'', Leo states that a half pound of beef is the equivalent of 24 hours of air-con – which completely blew my mind. I’m not saying you should go completely vegan but giving up beef and becoming more meat conscious will certainly help (it’s healthier too).''Reuse your towels''Avoid unnecessary''washing and reuse the towels you are given in a hotel or guesthouse (or at home!). In most hotels, this simply just means hanging up your towel so the maid knows that you will use it again and not wash it.You can read about the''best travel towels''on our site as well. We like to travel with the''Youphoria Travel Towel,''which dries quickly and folds up small when traveling.''It’s dead simple things like packing a travel towel to become more eco-friendly. If we start out with baby steps and we can make big gains in becoming more environmentally friendly travelers.''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Tips For Eco Friendly Travel''was last modified:''April 30th, 2018''by''Natasha''Many people flock to Orlando when they visit Florida, but why not head next door to Kissimmee instead? This Central Florida city has plenty to do and see, especially when you’re planning a date. What’s better than sunny weather, a hip downtown area, and proximity to one of the most wonderful places on earth? Any date night in Kissimmee is bound to be special, but here are a few ideas to get you started.''Fly High on a Balloon Ride''Nothing says romance like a hot air balloon floating high into the sky. Fly high with your lover and see Florida with a bird’s-eye view. Kissimmee Balloon Rides offers visitors the chance to take private rides above the city and see Central Florida’s vast landscapes.''Immerse Yourself in Chocolate''Take your significant other on a romantic and indulgent tour with Chocolate Kingdom. Factory Tours run every day of the week\xa0from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Traveling with little ones? Kids will love the interactive journey through the chocolate factory.''Stroll Through Old Town''Kissimmee’s Old Town combines the area’s best dining and shopping all in one area. This area hosts car shows almost every weekend, and it’s home to some of Kissimmee’s best annual festivals. Both daytime and nighttime dates are ideal here, as you can dine at all types of restaurants. Don’t forget your wallet for all the fabulous shopping.''Experience Dinner and a Show''If you don’t fancy walking around all day, then try one of Kissimmee’s many dinner theaters. Nothing is better than food and entertainment, and Kissimmee is just the place to get the best of both worlds. Choose from many like''Capone’s Dinner & Show'',\xa0a''Mystery Dinner Show'', or''Titanic The Experience''.\xa0Arrive hungry, since these theaters serve plenty of food.''Freeze Together in an Ice Bar''Have a drink in the world’s largest permanent''ice bar in the world''! Surround yourself with beautiful ice sculptures, chilled cocktails, and a plethora of ice.\xa0ICEBAR Orlando is the perfect place to go for a different kind of night out. The bar also provides visitors with complimentary photos, so there’s no need to take selfies or awkwardly ask someone else to snap your picture.''Dine at One of Kissimmee’s Best Restaurants''Savion’s Place\xa0is one of the best-rated restaurants in Kissimmee, and it’s a great setting for a fabulous date night. This downtown restaurant has indoor and outdoor seating and live music, and it makes for a great place to get away from all the chain restaurants in the area. The restaurant is known for its gluten-free menu, soups, and salads, but almost anything on order is bound to be tasty. Get there early to take advantage of the restaurant’s happy hour!''Whatever you choose to do, a magical date night in Kissimmee is sure to be a special one with your significant other.''Magical Date Nights to Have in Kissimmee''was last modified:''December 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''First things first – Cameron and I are not married, nor are we engaged. However, given that we are a traveling couple in our mid-twenties we get asked quite a bit about honeymoon destinations. The question “where would you recommend for our honeymoon?” pops up in our inbox often and we love shedding light on the subject.''Many North Americans turn to the Caribbean or Europe given the close proximity to North America. For similar reasons, Australians may turn to Southeast Asia for the perfect getaway. These continents are fantastic! We love''sipping cappuccinos in Italy'',''dancing through the streets of Paris'', and enjoying long massages in Thailand. Although, there is one continent that may be overshadowed, but it is certainly a''honeymoon experience''to have – Africa.''I bet you knew where that was going considering we’ve spent the last five months in Africa, and have fallen so in love that we''even bought a car here''! Let me convince you why a honeymoon in Southern Africa will be one of the best choices of your life. Here are some of my favorite destinations in Southern Africa.''A Tropical Honeymoon in Mozambique''We have sung''praises about Mozambique in the pas''t. We went into the country uncertain of travel there and left with a strong desire to return immediately. The highlight of many travelers itineraries in Mozambique are Vilanculos and Tofo Beach. Tofo Beach is just near Inhambane and easy to reach from Maputo. Do you want to swim with whale sharks on your honeymoon? Then head to Tofo Beach and check it off your bucket list.''Vilanculos is the gateway to the stunning Bazaruto Archipelago. It is here that some of the last dugongs reside (and you may even get lucky and see one). Bazaruto Island is an isolated white sand island offering incredible views of the bright blue Indian Ocean.''No matter where you are in Mozambique, the food is African cuisine at its finest. Seafood is the general fare in Mozambique and every night on honeymoon you can be whisked away with fresh crayfish, prawns, crab and of course a local 2M beer (or “dos M,” as the locals call it).''Bringing in the fresh catch on Vilanculos''A City Escape in Cape Town''We spent two months in Cape Town'', so it would be hard for me not to mention this wonderful city as a top honeymoon destination. If you are looking for an active honeymoon with beautiful views then Cape Town is the answer. Table Mountain is the main attraction in the city – and once you arrive and see the mountain tower over Cape Town you will see why. The active honeymooners will find enjoyment hiking the mountain and the adrenaline seekers''will be sure to get a rush abseiling down it''. There are also many other stunning things to make your honeymoon fulfilling. From driving Chapman’s Peak, to diving with sharks, to''visiting the Cape Winelands''there is enough to fill an itinerary for months.''(We did!)''There are an endless amount of hotels to stay at in the city, but we fell in love with the''One and Only Cape Town'', located right next to the infamous V & A Waterfront. This is one of the most exclusive hotels in Cape Town and is a surreal place to spend some quality honeymoon time.''Even if you aren’t a city person, Cape Town still has that power to enchant all visitors. Have I mentioned it may be the most''photogenic city in the world''and that it is one of''Lonely Planet’s top cities to travel to''?''A Safari in Sabi Sands''Of course, I can’t say Africa is a honeymoon destination and not mention a safari! It’s true that Africa brings out all walks of life and South Africa is no exception. Fancy seeing a dazzle of zebra or a herd of elephants? Well, there is no other place in the world that will offer you the experience that Africa will. Just outside of the massive''Kruger National Park''is Sabi Sands Game Reserve. Sabi Sands offers visitors the same great variety of wildlife, with much less tourism. Want to tell friends and family about your honeymoon upon return? Then a leopard sighting and a photo is probably sure to impress them. Leopard sightings are a regular occurrence at this private reserve, maybe that’s why they label themselves as “''the best place in the world for safari''.”''Those lodges that you see all the fancy people staying at? The ones where you can bath while watching an impala roam free just meters away? Those are the kinds of beautiful lodges that are in Sabi Sands Reserve.''Lion Sands River Lodge''is just one of the impressive lodges that offer the ultimate African honeymoon experience. With heated swimming pools, indoor and outdoor showers, and even a bush bedroom there is little to complain about on honeymoon.''These are some of my favorite destinations in Southern Africa to travel through. The best part is you don’t have to organize a trip to these locations yourself. African Safaris is a highly reputable company based in the US that organizes trips''exactly with these honeymoon destinations in mind''. They specialize in honeymoon destinations across Africa\xa0and have been creating dream worthy trips for a long time. We have most of Africa ourselves, but we have also had some help planning from\xa05-star Trustpilot rated companies like African Safaris too.''Africa is a land dying to be uncovered more. The wildlife, the people, the scenery, the activities. All of it will give you a special honeymoon that is different from the rest. As Ernest Hemingway said,''“I never knew of a morning in Africa when I woke up and was not happy.”''This post was written in collaboration with African Safaris. As always, all opinions are our own.''You May Also Like:''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''23 Portraits of Happiness From Around Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Why Not Head to Africa for the Perfect Honeymoon Escape?''was last modified:''February 10th, 2018''by''Natasha''We drove into Southern Namibia from South Africa and were greeted by looming rock formations and empty roads. The path before us wound through an\xa0arid canyon and came up to a plateau, and the perfect Southern Namibia self drive itinerary laid ahead. \xa0As we ascended out of the canyon\xa0the sun began to set. The change in weather created gusts of fiery red sand, that lit on fire from the descending sun. This all came within our first hour in the country. We had yet to make it to a single site on our journey, but we had already come to our conclusion. Namibia is entrancing.''Weather in Namibia is not pleasant nor is there much green. However, the landscapes and wildlife are spectacular. Breathtaking and stunning are not terms used loosely here, because the landscapes are just that.''Our first trip with our new car begins in Southern Namibia, which can roughly be divided by the tropic of Capricorn. There are a number of places to visit in the south of the country. Granted it is the least sparsely region of Namibia, and it is not your standard place of beauty. Unless dry, hot, dusty, dead, weathered, rocky, or sandy are your ideal adjectives when looking for your next holiday. If you want to sit on a beach and drink pina colada’s Namibia won’t be your cup of tea. Namibia is a country that reminds you that the earth does not revolve around you. You’re small in Namibia. And we like it that way.''Southern Namibia Self Drive Itinerary''Fish River Canyon''Our first stop in Namibia was a deep gouge out of the earth that could swallow cities whole.''Fish River Canyon''was the result of the separation\xa0of the Gondwana supercontinent. An event that shaped much of the landscapes of Southern Africa today. We arrived in this area at the start of a new moon after driving all day from Cape Town. By the time we turned on the road for the canyon it was dark.''Read More:''{''Being Undesirable and the Real Reason We Bought a Car in Africa''}''A Namibian night during the new moon is pure darkness.\xa0There are no street lights, paved roads, or houses. We drove down a sand\xa0road and could not distinguish any characteristics of the landscape. When I stopped to let air out of our tires for the road the light from my flashlight was swallowed whole by the black.''Now imagine a pitch black\xa0night on this Namibian road!''After twelve hours of being on the road, we pulled into the most fitting place imaginable,''The Canyon Roadhouse''. A new lodge that embodies all of the aspects of an old roadhouse. The Canyon Roadhouse is also one of the best places to fill up on petrol or diesel close to the canyon. When you’re traveling through Africa being strategic on when and where you fill you tank up is crucial. So, we made good use of their petrol station. While, we stayed at the Roadhouse we had\xa0a comfy room, hot shower, A/C, and good food with all the charm. Old cars littered across the\xa0car park and license plates adorning the walls are touches that stood out. The roadhouse made for a great first stopover to explore the Canyon.''Check prices for the roadhouse here!''The next day we moved camp and went to''Gondwana Collection’s Canyon Village''. The lodge was set up in the form of a small village lost in the desert. Turning off the main road you wind 3km down a sandy track before arriving at the main lodge a low stone building with a massive thatched roof. We arrived early in the day eager to explore the area. After checking in we wasted no time and took advantage of the cloud coverage before the sun was in full swing.''Check prices here!''Weather in Namibia is no joke. Temperatures in Namibia during the summer can easily reach 45C. So, unlike other parts of the world, a little bit of cloud coverage and a breeze is\xa0a very good thing. With that in mind, we set out for a bush walk up the neighboring mountain. The walk provided stunning views of the landscape and gave us a chance to get active, something we needed after all the driving.''Overlooking Gondwana’s Fish River Canyon Village''We came to a small nature blind\xa0which provided shade, as the sun was starting to peak out, and offered a great vantage point. After sitting a moment, we spotted oryx, zebra, and springbok all in the Gondwana Nature Reserve. The reserve is 127,000 hectares and was returned to nature by Gondwana. Not wanting to let the opportunity pass us we began our descent down the small mountain in order to grab some photos. The wildlife within the Gondwana Reserve and the surroundings takes some work to find, but against all odds, it exists and in variety.''The rest of the evening was spent relaxing poolside. It’s pretty much the best way to take in an\xa0area. Sitting down with a good book,''Trigger Warning: Short Fictions and Disturbances'', and the pool was the perfect way to take in the tranquility of the region while escaping the heat with some company in the form of dassies.''The next day was the day for us and we set out for the Fish River Canyon edge. Late October\xa0in Namibia was hot as temperatures soared close to 40C. We initially made our way to the Canyon late morning, and it was too stinking hot so we agreed to make our way back to the pool. We made our way back to the Canyon around 17:00 with some cold Windhoek lagers in hand. The two notable beer brands in Namibia are Windhoek and''Tafel.''Sunset over the canyon is breathtaking. It’s the sort of view you drive hours out of your way to take in with some cold beers, and that’s just what we did. However, the region\xa0proved to be much more interesting than we had hoped for. With our Windhoeks and the sun gone we made our way back to the Canyon Village for a delicious meal. Something about the hot sun makes us very hungry.''Fish River Canyon Facts''Fish River Canyon is the''largest canyon in Africa''. It is around 160 km\xa0long and 27km across while the canyon cliffs descend to almost 550m at points. The formation of the canyon dates back to around 650 million years ago\xa0and began forming during\xa0the movement of tectonic plates as\xa0the supercontinent Gondwana split. Over these hundred of millions of years Fish River, and at points glaciers have slowly worn away at the once solid plateau creating a mesmerizing canyon. Visitors can hike the trail in the winter months from May – September; however, during the summer months the risk of flash flooding prevents hikers from tackling the 88km challenge.''The''NWR does offer camping at the gate'', but we checked out the campsite on our way in and would not recommend staying there by any means (little shade and very dusty). The Gondwana Collection offers a campsite at their Canyon Roadhouse (''Canyon Road Campsite'') and''Ais-Ais Resort''offers camping to the south of canyon with thermal hot springs.''Please note that although Fish River Canyon is a very popular stop for those touring Namibia it is remote and in a desert. Water\xa0scarcity, heat, bad roads, and sand storms are all real threats here. Always travel with enough water and be aware of what you are getting into. We have heard stories of travelers treating Namibia as if they were hitchhiking\xa0around Europe. Do not be one of them.''Fish River Canyon Park''Park Fees:''N$30 Namibian, N$60 SADC Resident, N$80 International''Vehicle Entry Fee'': N$10''Luderitz & Kolmanskop''Namibia can\xa0be perplexing. It is a former''German colony and the influence is still felt today''. Many Namibians speak German and towns like Luderitz and Swakopmund still bear the mark of German architecture. These German homes are sandwiched between a cold ocean and towering sand dunes. The chilly\xa0waters produce\xa0strong winds that beat gutters made for the snow with thick desert sands. It feels like a post-apocalyptic world, little wonder why George Miller shot''Mad Max Fury Road''in Namibia.''Decay in desert environments is, if not nonexistent, extremely slow. It feels as if the Namibian coast is stuck in time and trapped in this waterless environment. One doesn’t have to think hard about where the whole coasts former name, The Skeleton Coast, comes from. The Namibian coast feels like a testament to life on our planet, despite the odds it is teeming. We found thousands of flamingos, pelicans, seals, a few whales, and even a colony of penguins.''Looks like a photo from 1905 if not for our car!''Exploring more of Luderitz involves venturing south from the town out to see the Luderitz peninsula. We drove roughly 30km out of town and around to Diego’s Point. The point is where the explorer Diogo Cão first landed on his way down the coast before claiming Mozambique in the name of Portugal. The point may be one of the strangest places we have ever been because of its complete emptiness and eerieness. The cold waters whipped strong gusts of winds while the waves pounded against a rocky shore. We could see massive sand dunes in the distance and an island of fur seals just off shore.''Our true reasoning for traveling to Luderitz was not for the coast. Ten kilometers from Luderitz in the desert is where you can find the abandoned\xa0German mining town, called Kolmanskop.''Kolmanskop''The abandoned diamond mining town of Kolmanskop was once a thriving place despite being in the middle of the Namib desert. In the early 1900’s a German railway worker found a diamond lying on the ground and the rest is history. A town was quickly set up and grew in size. At it’s peak the mining town had a hospital, ballroom, bowling alley, theater, school, power station, ice factory, a trolley system, and a sports hall with 400 Germans and 800 Owambo contract workers.''They went to all sorts of lengths to prevent diamond theft. There are stories of making workers drink castor oil and do a stint in the infirmary ward at the end of their contract to ensure they were totally clean of any merchandise.''Today, the ghost town still stands in the sand dunes of the Namib Desert. In the 1980s the DeBeer mining company decided to turn the former town into a museum. The only threat to the towns now are the encroaching sand dunes.''The museum offers a free tour, but we suggest giving it a pass.The tours are informative, but as Namibia continues to experience a tourist boom the groups number close to 50 in what was formerly the off-season.\xa0If possible do some reading on the''town here'', and then go to Kolmanskop yourself. \xa0You no longer need to pre-arrange a tour or permits for your visit to Kolmanskop. We arrived 10 minutes before the tour and had no problem. (''Don’t pay for a photography permit they do not check.'')''Kolmanskop Permit Cost:''N$75.00 per adult''Aus''This stop won’t appear in most tourists Namibian itinerary, but it makes for a wonderful stop. Aus is a small town with very little except for two campsites, a lodge, petrol station, restaurant, and a hotel. It lies along one of the few major roads in Namibia, the B4. The road is largely flat and desert, but as one approaches Aus the mountains rise up out of the desert. Here you’ll find stunning red rock sunsets and a rare group of horses.''Our true reasoning for venturing here was in search of the feral horses. This proved to be much more work than we initially thought. The corrugated roads of Namibia had put our Land Cruiser’s radiator in a bad place. Several years of no love and the radiator was full of sediment. Meaning that when we made the desert hill climb up to Aus with the wind on our back and five people in the truck we started to overheat in a bad way. With the heat running and us baking like hams in the oven we got lucky and spotted the horses out of our window thanks to''Ben a fellow traveler, with his own blog''.''We turned off the highway and down the dirt roads to the watering hole where the feral horses were waiting. No one is certain of where these wild desert horses originated from, but they now number close 150. The horses have adapted to their desert environment and are said to able to go five days with little to no water.''We parked at a distance from\xa0them, but they quickly approached out of curiosity. Within minutes we found ourselves surrounded by the wild horses who found Charlie, our Land Cruiser, quite interesting. The horses are beautiful, but in many ways do feel like regular domesticated horses. You can observe more wild behavior as the horses play (and even fight) with each other.''We set up camp at Gondwana’s Klein Aus Vista campsite.''The campsite costs N$160 per person.''The campsite much like their lodges is well run and had\xa0spaced campsites with shade, fire pits, showers, and toilets. Watching the sun descend over Aus mountains makes for the perfect sundowner location.\xa0The next morning we broke camp and headed towards Mariental and the famous Kalahari Desert.''Check current prices here!''The Kalahari''The Kalahari is a massive swath of desert land in Southern Africa and occupies much of\xa0Namibia and Botswana. Here rust-colored sand stains the earth and vegetation dots the horizon making\xa0for a gorgeously colored landscape. As beautiful it may be in the evening, it can become unbearably hot during\xa0midday. Temperatures in the Kalahari can reach 50C and the midday sun turns everything into a bleak barren looking wasteland. The landscape here is grand in scale. A short walk through leaves you wondering how it can go on for thousands of kilometers. It is a\xa0landscape that leaves its mark on the earth from space. \xa0Sand storms here reach up into the earths atmosphere and can\xa0affect global weather patterns.''The Tswana refer to the Kalahari as the\xa0Kgalagadi: Land of Thirst. It most certainly is. The massive stretch of earth stretches across eight countries and sunsets here are mesmerizing and demand the travelers’ attention. The morning and evening light pulls out great contrasts as the red iron sand compliments acacia trees. By some accounts, the volume of sand in the Kalahari makes it the largest desert in the world, but that doesn’t mean you’ll find large sand dunes here. Instead, it is endless plain of deep red sand.''On a smaller scale, life does exist! The horizon can be dotted by a family of meerkats standing at attention. While hundreds of species of birds fly through the sky, not including the flightless ostrich. Not to mention one of our favorite African birds – the weaver. The desert is also home to numerous large mammals such as oryx, springbok, zebras, and jackals.''Our journey into the Kalahari began 25km from Mariental.\xa0The Gondwana Collection’s Kalahari Anib and Farmhouse were set as our bases to explore the legendary stretch of\xa0desert. It was a long travel day for us and we made our way to Mariental from Aus after spotting the feral\xa0horses in a mountain desert. Our struggle with Charlie continued as traveling through the scorching hot Namibian sun caused him to continue overheating. More of the windows down and heat on drill, NOT FUN!''Check prices and availability here!''However, turning into''Gondwana’s Kalahari Park''for the first time and we knew we’d made a good decision regarding our itinerary in Southern Namibia. A short check in and explanation later we were sitting on our private deck and enjoying some gin and tonics while watching the breathtaking sunset. The park houses both the Kalahari Campsite and''Kalahari Anib Lodge''. We stayed in the Anib Lodge, but their campsites are also a wonderful option for those looking to be more in tune with nature or on a budget.\xa0Dinner on the back deck of the Anib lodge was buffet style and both delicious and relaxing. Nights in the African bush have this quality to them you can’t find back in any\xa0city.''We were nearly run over by a springbok on our walk back to our room as he pronged right up over our heads after we gave him/her a fright. After retiring to our room we woke up to a herd of eland at the watering hole outside of our bedroom window. Nineteen rooms at the Anib Lodge face out to the Kalahari Game Park and a watering hole frequented by the wild game. There seemed to be a revolving door of animals at all times of the day, and night. The park is filled with lots of wild game and makes for a wonderful introduction to the Kalahari.''An interesting facet of the Kalahari is that it is not as dry as it seems. One of the largest subterranean aquifers in the world exists here. So large that despite being in a desert there are places where the water is pushed up out of the ground. One of the natural aquifers is in Stampriet just another 25km down the road from the Anib lodge. This is the farm or\xa0the self-sufficiency center for the entire Gondwana Collection where they grow much of produce used in their lodges. The water on the farm is actually a natural spring and is some of the cleanest water due to the natural filtration process from the Kalahari sands.''The lodge at Stampriet is called''The Kalahari Farmhouse''. Each room is rustic and modeled after a miniature farmhouse. We loved the touches here like the old school farmhouse doors. What made it all the more incredible is that it is more or less a hidden oasis in the middle of the Kalahari Desert. It’s like an escape from Namibia, within Namibia. Here there is a lovely garden, green grass, large trees stuff you will not find anywhere else in Southern Namibia. Tasha also made full use of the pool during the midday Namibian heat.''Check prices here!''Kgalagadi''Transfrontier Park''Mariental and Stampriet make for those looking to get a taste of the Kalahari; however, for those looking to truly get into the bush then the lodges/campsites make for a great stopover en route to the the\xa0Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park. The park is located in Botswana and South Africa. The park is home to some of Africa’s greatest wildlife. Here you can find migrating herd of wildebeest and eland. While, large predators like lions and cheetahs roam free.''The red sands within the park stretch on forever. The experience we received was a good taste of the Kalahari, but the real thing lies within this park where it is truly wild. 4×4 tracks lead deep into the wilderness though thick red sand offering a true adventure for those brave enough, or crazy enough. You can read more about the park''here''.''Sossusvlei''After the Kalahari, we spent a week exploring the Namib desert on a more intimate scale before we headed for the world-famous Sossusvlei. If there is one place you have seen of Namibia in photos it is Sossusvlei, and rightfully so. The famous location is in reference to a small arid clay pan that is surrounded by the Namib Desert and the highest sand dunes on earth. This section of the desert is home to some of the countries largest sand dunes and they’re are by all accounts grand in scale. The location also happens to be one of the most popular tourist attractions in all of Namibia.''Read More: {''Waking Up in a Dream in the Namib Desert''}''We arrived at the''Seriesm Campsite''in Sossusvlei with no reservations and were relegated to the overflow campsite.\xa0This campsite\xa0turned out to be less than stellar and we would not recommend staying here (at least in the overflow). The campsite is a parking lot in the Namib Desert at the foot of the largest sand dunes in the world. Suffice to say it was not a pleasant camping experience…but we stayed because…''The early morning light! Yes, we stayed in what will likely be one of our least enjoyable campsites on this whole trip so we could get up at 4:30 a.m. Yay! The big thing with the Sossusvlei area is to see the sun rise over the dunes which are an incredible sight to see. Before the sun rose we packed up camp and hightailed it into the desert.''The majority of visitors make it to the gate as they open up at 5:15 a.m. and make a mad dash for Sossusvlei or Dune 45. Dune 45 is one of the tallest dunes within the park. The main draw is its accessibility. The dune is 45km from the main gate, hence its name. The road to the dune is\xa0paved and it has a parking lot at its base. If timed properly it is possible to drive to and climb the dune to watch the sun come up over the Namib desert. You must see the sunrise over the desert at least once in your life.''Read More:''{''15 Namibia Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''}''We chose to opt out of climbing the dune with the other tourists this time. Instead, we found a dune all to ourselves deep in the national park. When the sun crests over 300m high piles of sand set the sky lights on fire. The dunes go from a flat color to a deep red while the shadows cast from theses giants take on the shapes of living creatures\xa0on a monstrous scale.''Sossusvlei Park Prices''Park Fee:''N$30 Namibian, N$60 SADC Resident, N$80 International''Sesriem Campsite:''N$200 Per Person''We left Southern Namibia as we crossed the Tropic of Capricorn on our journey\xa0closer to the Equator in Uganda. For the next few days we’ll spend our time soaking up the odd colonial vibes in the cities of Swakopmund and Walvis Bay on the eerie coast of Namibia. Old German homes, flamingos, and a massive seal colony await.''Namibia is, by all means, a country of the desert. \xa0This is only detailing the first half of our journey through the nation. Stay tuned for our trip through Northern Namibia!''Quick Help to Self Driving Southern Namibia''Capital: Windhoek''Currency: The Namibian Dollar, equivalent to the South African Rand''Borders are easy to cross between South Africa and Botswana.''Self-Driving Southern Namibia is the most popular way of getting around. Distances are great and petrol stations are scarce so buy a map and plan accordingly. We were able to pay with credit card for gas at almost all gas stations.''Most roads around the country are in very good condition, however, expect corrugation and some bumpy rides.''Visitors will be able to get by just fine with English in Namibia''We experienced no bribes, hassles, or police corruption in the country during our month in the country.''We felt very safe traveling in Namibia. We did not go to Windhoek as we felt we didn’t need to see another big city.''MTC and TN Mobile are the two main cell phone providers in the country. We received a promotion for 1.3 GB of data for $N40 for one week with TN Mobile Jiva Surfer. Cell phone service was only available in towns and cities.''Thank you to our partner''The Gondwana Collection''who helped make this post possible. We were very fortunate to partner with them in Namibia. We firmly stand behind their brand and believe them to be a positive force within the tourism industry in Namibia. Their efforts towards conservation, job creation, value, environmental impact, and guest happiness are beyond commendable. We found multiple instances of\xa0actions that extended beyond self interest and towards the betterment of Namibia and the\xa0communities in which they occupy. \xa0As always all opinions are our own.''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Perfect Southern Namibia Self Drive Itinerary''was last modified:''December 2nd, 2017''by''Cameron''We’ve been in Africa now for just short of six months of this past year. We spent almost''two months in Cape Town''preparing and prepping for our''overland journey across Africa.''We have routed our itinerary, bought our supplies, and even purchased Charlie, our 1989 Toyota Landcruiser. We are as prepared and mentally fit as we will ever be to drive ourselves across Africa. Needless to say, this will be our most ambitious adventure we have ever taken. We are quickly finding out that travel in Europe, Asia, and Australia are a walk in the park compared to self-driving Africa.''We have been informing family, friends, and strangers of our plans. The responses go one of two ways.''“Wow, that’s amazing! You guys will have the time of your lives.”''Or''“You two are flippin nutters”''Many of the Africans have no idea why we would want to travel Africa when all they want to do is travel to the US. Then there are the others who think we will spend the whole time paying bribes, hitchhiking, and taking freezing cold bucket showers…or in other words it’s their idea of hell. Many people just want to know''why''we are doing a self-drive through Africa. So here is my best attempt to answer why I want to travel Africa.''Why I’m set on traveling Africa''Africa has always been a dream''You know when the''Lion King came out''and your childhood was changed forever? Well, mine was too. Then there were the other movies like Out of Africa, I Dreamed of Africa, and The First Grader that I would watch (and still watch) and I just knew I had to get Africa for myself. Traveling Africa has always been a dream of ours and there doesn’t seem like any better time than the present to pursue a dream.''It’s unique''I love Italy'',''Thailand'', and''Greece''. They are wonderful places that we know we will be back to. You know who else loves them? Everyone. It’s time for me to give the beautiful continent of Africa a chance and bring it more to light to the western market.''We’re independent travelers''Many people want to travel Africa, but safari companies and''articles like this try''and convince you that you simply cannot do it on your own. While I must admit the logistics involved in traveling most of these developing countries are indeed very difficult, they aren’t impossible. We tend to shy away from tours and love traveling independently so there is no better way for us to take our time and''get ourselves across Africa than in our own car''.''The culture''When I see photos of the beautiful African woman in bright clothes or photos of the Maasai men in all of their stark red cloth I am awestruck. We just have to see these different cultures and experience them first hand.''Traveling the Mountain Kingdom (Lesotho)''To feel badass''We are just going to feel a tad bit badass when we are finished traversing through some of the worst roads on the planet in our 1989 Toyota Land Cruiser . I think Cameron would agree. Now, I just have to properly learn how to drive a massive 4×4 on the opposite side of the road in Africa…''To be good grandparents''I don’t want to be a grandparent to my hypothetical grandchildren telling boring stories. I want them to sit down and relish my stories of watching the sunset over the Namib desert, or coming face to face with a real wild lion and hopefully inspire them to live a life full of adventure!''To escape the bubble''I’m not really sure how to put this bluntly, but most''Americans live in a giant bubble.''And I’m not just ragging on Americans, because most Europeans, Canadians, Aussies, and other developed western nations live in the bubble too. We know nothing of what’s going on in the world unless it is on our\xa0“news” station. We b*tch about stupid crap that doesn’t matter in the West (Cameron and I aren’t saints either, I am constantly frustrated about WiFi). We’re traveling to Africa to see the other side of the world and open our eyes just a little bit wider.''For the COFFEE''We both love coffee''! So it makes sense for us to travel to some of the countries that produce the best in the world. We can’t wait to stock up on all the beans while traveling through Tanzania, Kenya, and Ethiopia! We’re taking orders if anyone wants some beans. 🙂''And the smiles''What’s better –''traveling around New York''or London where everyone will want you to get out of their way and stop asking where bloody Times Square is, or being surrounded by people curious about you and flashing million dollar smiles? People don’t smile like they used to, and if they do we just think they must be a serial killer or some other weirdo. We actually find that those with less have the biggest hearts and smiles. People just seem so happy despite some of their less than ideal circumstances. I think more of that needs to be radiated back on us.''To get away from some typical travelers''Anyone who has traveled abroad knows that person. THAT guy who thinks you are totally “traveling Prague the wrong way man.” The girl who just says you HAVE to go to Mykonos if you want to party the night away and''experience Greece.''The person who has traveled to every single country in the world and no matter what story you tell – theirs is better. It gets pretty annoying and repetitive after awhile.\xa0We are hoping to meet some different travelers while in Africa. The kind that have been chased by elephants, lived in the local villages, or the ones that will just chat with you all night in front of a fire instead of\xa0staring at their phone.''To be a better tourist''Many people head straight to Africa to volunteer with an organization for a week or two and then head home to their cushiony lives. Not only should this kind of''voluntourism be thought twice about,''but can you really say you gave back to the local economy? We believe that by traveling through Africa our money will be spent in the right places. Yes, we will be spending our money on a couple coffees and other unnecessary items for ourselves, but at least our money will be going right back to local business owners and help stimulate the economy. We believe that to understand some of the problems in Africa you must at least travel and spend time there first. \xa0This is not to say that volunteering is a''bad''thing because we do have plans to volunteer and work at a few places that do good along the way. We just have a problem with the short-term volunteer brought in by big companies that are for profit. More on that issue to come after we’ve traveled the continent and talked with more NGO’s.''To prove everyone wrong''Isn’t Africa dangerous?''Won’t people be racist towards you''?''What if you get Malaria?''Well, whilst I do believe Africa can be dangerous, that there is some racism towards white people, and that malaria is a serious issue I certainly am not going to let that deter me from traveling the continent. \xa0Actually, the main thing I’m scared of is camping in open areas with lions and hyenas. The connotations about traveling Africa are so strong that many people just''head to Europe''or Southeast Asia and never experience the beauty here. Through our blog, we want to highlight and show the beauty that is Africa by doing a self-drive tour through the continent. We promise to shed light on the dangerous and annoying side of things as well! We’ll definitely be taking advantage of the hashtag #theafricathemedianevershowsyou on Instagram,''so follow us here!''To break out of my comfort zone''We are going to be taking bucket showers, camping in our vehicle, and probably eating some less than desirable food. I can’t say that any of these are things that I dream of doing.''I’ve never been much for camping''or taking a bucket shower, but it’s time to experience more things outside the comfortable American lifestyle many of us are so used to.''Animals!''I’ll never be able to look at a zoo or aquarium the same after this journey through Africa. We have already been on some pretty''awesome safaris''and swam with some amazing creatures. \xa0A huge reason we are traveling Africa is to act like Nat Geo photographers and get our own Planet Earth footage! We even took up birding last month…yea we’re getting serious.''For the adventure''Forget the bungee jumping, dune sandboarding, and zip lining. What’s''really going to get our adrenaline pumping''? The sheer thought of two American’s driving our newly purchased 4×4 on some of these African roads and living to tell about it. (Assuming we live).''Because my mom thinks it’s dangerous''Nothing really phases my parents anymore when it comes to my life. “Hey mom,''I’m moving to New York City''!” “Hey mom, I’m''flying to Ecuador TOMORROW''!” “Hey mom, I just was''face to face with a Great White Shark''!” Almost anything I say usually gets a nod and a “that’s nice hunny.”But when I actually get a nervous reaction when I tell the rents we are buying a car to drive through Africa. Well, that’s just like a double dog dare.''Because it’s luxurious''Full disclosure, we have a few plans to stay at some pretty''incredible African lodges while here''. The Westin and Hilton are like a Tesco plastic playhouse''compared to these properties in Africa''. Our hope is to shine light on the culture, the wildlife, the people,''and the stunning lodges''and get more people spending their tourist dollars here.''I can think clearly''I can’t think of any place better to''read a book'', have a thought, or just drown out the world than in the middle of the Okavango Delta or on a''secluded beach in Mozambique''. We’ve come to Africa to step away from the computer from time to time, disconnect from the world, and go back in time for a bit.''I’m not gonna say we are traveling Africa because it’s affordable or because of the amazing food, or because I want to save all the orphans and fight AIDS. Quite frankly – traveling Africa is anything but affordable, the food is for the most part pretty unimaginative, and of course I want to save everyone – but I know that I cannot. I am traveling Africa to live, to be free, and for the adventure.''You May Also Like''Traveling Africa: 18 Reasons I am Determined to Overland the Continent''was last modified:''December 8th, 2016''by''Natasha''It’s almost impossible to take a bad photo in Namibia. The country may be sparsely populated, but it packs a whole lot of punch for Namibian photography. \xa0Every day we found ourselves eager to explore a new corner of the country. Whether it was the tantalizing sunsets, the unique and sometimes bizarre wildlife, or the captivating people Namibia never left us bored.''To many Namibia is a land unheard of, but it is rising as the new “hot spot” for international travel. Even with it’s rising popularity one can even find themselves completely isolated in a far off land. We traveled overland in our Land Cruiser and at\xa0points felt we were\xa0on a foreign planet.''This is our Namibia photography collection of a November spent around Namibia.''Our Guides To Namibia''A Self Drive Guide Through the Wild Northern Namibia''Namib Desert Exploring: A Field Guide To Driving Southern Namibia''A Road Trip Through Namibia''15 Namibia Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''Etosha National Park Safari Guide''Experiencing Wolwedans Dunes Lodge, Boulders Camp, and Private Camp''Explore Namibia Through Video''Namibia Photography''Sunset over the Kalahari''Who can make the funniest face?''Zebra Party in the Desert''Lonely Namibian Roads''Meet One of the Smiley Namibian Bushmen''Cape Cross Seal Colony''Overlooking the Great Zambezi''Hyena Bathing in Etosha National Park''Lesser Flamingos in Walvis Bay''Storm Over Etosha National Park''Watching the Mbunza Fish in the Okavango''One Shy Hornbill''Gymnastics in Deadvlei''Camping in Sossusvlei''Sundowners\xa0never get old''Watching the women weave in the Caprivi Strip''Storm rolling in over the Okavango''Seal Love''Zebra\xa0Crossing''Traditional medicine used by tribal members''A herd of elephants in the Chobe River''Lion sleep time in Etosha''Reliving the old ways of living in the Caprivi Strip''The beautiful Secretary bird''The mighty\xa0Zambezi''Mum and pup fight at Cape Cross Seal Colony''Smiling is Contagious''A dehorned rhino in Etosha''Dancing and smiling along the Caprivi Strip''The smelliest place on earth''Sunrise over Sossusvlei''Faces of Namibia''Sundowners over the desert''Gearing up for dinner in the NamibRand Nature Reserve''White Mongoose eyeing us (and our food)''A walk through Deadvlei''Many tired hippos between Botswana and Namibia''Entering the abandoned town of Kolmanskop''Checking into the Canon Roadhouse near Fish River Canyon''The mysterious fairy circles in the NamibRand Desert''Inside the abandoned mining town near Luderitz''Sunrise Views''A bushwalk through the desert''Checking into Wolwedans Dune Lodge''The iconic Boulders Camp''Long dog days in the Kalahari''Wild horse fight in Aus''The surreal orange sand that makes up the Namib Desert''The wild horses of Garub checking out our car''Sunset at Gondwana’s Canyon Village near Fish River Canyon''The last of the Namib wild horses''Abandoned houses\xa0are always a sight to see''Desert Dreams''All photography shot with our''DJI Phantom 3 Advanced'',''Go Pro Hero 4 Silver'',''Canon 5D'', and''Fujifilm X-T10''. We use these products every day and highly recommend all of them.\xa0 They are some of the''best travel cameras on the market.''Plan Your Trip to Namibia''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Namibia:''We like to use''Hotels.com''to \xa0make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Tours in Namibia:''If you’re not much of a driver check out some of these''Namibian tours.''Flights to Namibia:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Namibia fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''50 Photos That Will Make You Want to Visit Namibia''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Natasha''If there is one lodge\xa0that is THE lodge\xa0in Namibia it is Wolwedans. There is arguably no better way to experience the Namibian desert.\xa0The Wolwedans Collection consists of four camps Wolwedans Dunes Lodge, Boulders Camp, Private Camp, and Dunes Camp. The\xa0Wolwedans operation is\xa0a contender for the best eco-lodge operation in Africa and arguably the best in Namibia. At the core of a lodge in Africa is the environment, it is what draws guests. And\xa0how a lodge treats views their\xa0environment speaks loudly about the passion that will be experienced by those fortunate enough to call themselves guests.''A Desert\xa0Setting''What’s your idea of Namibia?''If you have any idea, it is likely one of wonder. While images of towering sand dunes, ancient rock formations, wild tribes, desert animals, sand storms, and mysterious circles swirl around your head. All of which are striking elements of Namibia. However, one of the most striking elements of Namibia is not the scorching hot temperatures in the summer, but the serenity. In the desert at night, there is simply the wandering soul and the night sky. For us, we found solitude in Namibia in\xa0almost every corner.''The Wolwedans Experience''Wolwedans is\xa0a collection of camps/lodges in the middle of the desert.\xa0It took us a few hours to''get there with Charlie'', on the unpaved and corrugated roads that make up Namibia. The founding partner of the''NamibRand Nature Reserve''a 200,000-hectare\xa0non-profit private nature reserve in southwest Namibia. The focus of which is the preservation and restoration of the\xa0Namibian land to its natural state.''We talk''a lot about eco friendly products''and businesses and Wolwedans is an exceptional example. The lodge company is very\xa0close to\xa0self-sustaining,\xa0which is amazing given their location in such a secluded part of the world. The reception area is where most guests will check in and leave their car for the duration of their stay. Except this reception is much more than the typical hotel reception area. It’s the heart and soul of the entire Wolwedans operation. “Base camp,” is where the staff members reside, where water is treated, where waste is managed, where vegetables are grown, and where all the magic happens.''We were given a comprehensive tour around base camp to see the behind the scenes operations for ourselves, and it was remarkable to see the amount of care that goes into making this whole operation complete. From the bed frame woodwork, to tent canvas repairs, to in laundry facilities and auto repairs this place runs like it’s own little city.''All produce is grown in greenhouses set up at base camp, with only meat products coming in from Windhoek. We were pleased to find out that Wolwedans scored 5 flowers for''Eco Awards Namibia'', promoting recycling, reusing, and reducing. I could go on and on about their''sustainability objectives in Africa'', but I want to take you to the beautiful lodges first.''Wolwedans Dunes Lodge''We were told that sometimes the Wolwedans Dunes Lodge\xa0is seen as the least popular option at Wolwedans, but I cannot possibly see why. The lodge is situated right at the top of a major sand dune and offers incredible views. We were greeted by the lodge manager, Selma, at arrival. She introduced herself to us with her birth name, from the Nama “click” language that I don’t think I could ever properly pronounce. So we settled on the name “Terrible Selma,” until we were to depart.''Wolwedans Dunes Lodge features ten chalets mostly constructed out of wood instead of canvas tents. Each room opens up to the east, offering incredible views of the sunrise every morning. We slept with the canvas tents rolled up and could gaze at the stars all night. We felt at one with nature while still having an extremely comfortable sleep. Wolwedans Dunes Lodge has a massive pool attached to the pharmacy (or the “bar”) and continues to spill into one grand lobby area. This is where Cameron and I spent most of our day – basking in the intense Namibian sun surrounded by cool water and a good book.''Dinner time becomes a communal gathering at Wolwedans Dunes Lodge. Guests can all sit together and get to know one another over a seven course Wolwedans meal. Meals start with a small appetizer, and then grow and grow into a magnificent and decadent main dish of fish or meat. I am a pretty social person, so I thoroughly enjoyed that Wolwedans encourages guests to sit together at Dune Lodge – we even walked away with a few new friends here. Of course, separate tables are available for those who want a private experience.''Wolwedans Boulders Camp''We were feeling like even''better\xa0eco-friendly travelers''after Wolwedans Dunes Lodge so we made our way onward. Wolwedans Boulders Camp is easily the most secluded, exclusive, and different style of camp in the collection. It’s about 45 kilometers from base camp and takes at least an hour on interesting dirt roads to get to. Boulders Safari Camp is built entirely into… a series boulders!''There are only four tents that can accommodate\xa0eight people, making it one of the most private lodges in the desert. The entire camp is run by the men of Namibia, or the “Boulders Boys” as they told us upon arrival. We settled into our comfortable tent and enjoyed a sundowner with the other guests around the camps boma. The Boulders Boys were going on a game drive in the morning as this area of Wolwedans is where a lot of the wildlife action happens. This is also the only area of Wolwedans where we saw a cheetah! He bolted in front\xa0our car so fast that unfortunately, we were unable to snap a photo.''Wolwedans Dunes Camp''There is a Dunes Lodge and a Dunes Camp at Wolwedans, which can get a little confusing. Dunes Camp is actually much smaller than the lodge and is run by all ladies, or otherwise the “Dunes Divas.”''Wolwedans Dunes Camp is located at the top of a 250-meter high dune, with breathtaking views over the stunning mountains. The back porches of the tents at Dunes Camp are the perfect place to chill out and get lost in the desert air with a good book. There is a WiFi at the main lodge where coffee, tea, and cake is so that everyone can feel more at home with their stay.''When the sun goes down the ladies’ light a fire and they\xa0encourage everyone to gather around and enjoy a sundowner together. Dinner here is also a communal affair and everyone can enjoy their seven-course meal within the company of the other lodge guests.''Wolwedans Private Camp''Although we loved our time at Dunes Lodge, Dunes Camp, and Boulders Camp I have to give special attention to our favorite of the collection – Wolwedans Private Camp.''Private Camp is as one may expect – private. For obvious reasons we really enjoyed the privacy and seclusion at private camp, and so did Brangelina and other celebs when they were here! Yes, private camp is a bit “famous.” The whole area is about five\xa0times the size of our old''New York City apartment,''and it’s located smack dab in the middle of the freakin desert! There are three luxurious bedrooms here, a personal bar, kitchen, living room, and outside lounge bed. Private Camp also features a private swimming pool overlooking one of Wolwedans best watering holes.''We enjoyed spending almost every waking second outside gushing over the life that the watering hole brought in. At almost all times there were either zebra, oryx, or springbok outside our doorstep. This made for the perfect opportunity for Cam and me to grab some amazing up-close wildlife shots.''Just because we were completely secluded in the desert doesn’t mean we had to fend for ourselves either. Andrew, the lodge manager here was around for every meal and was accompanied by\xa0our own personal chef to prepare our breakfast, lunch, and dinner. We definitely didn’t leave Wolwedans any thinner.''Dinner at private camp is a special affair as Andrew set up a romantic table for all guests to have dinner at under the stairs. Before dinner, Andrew and our chef exclaimed the courses in English and then in went into a very detailed version of dinner in their own language. The scene felt like something from''Out of Africa'', except I was Meryl Streep and Cameron was Robert Redford. If I could have a permanent home in the desert, Private Camp would be my first choice.''Read More:''{''15 Namibia Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''}''Activities in the desert''Lounging around at every different lodge in the desert was more than relaxing, but I’m sure you are wondering what else we did. That’s where Bino and Buti came in! These two Bushman were our personal guides while we were at Wolwedans, and they were always there to show us around the huge reserve.''We met Bino on our first day at Wolwedans. He asked us what we would like to do, and every day he was there to pick us up and drive us around while explaining the desert landscapes along the way.''We met his uncle, Buti, on our second day at Wolwedans. Buti is a more a senior Bushman and really led us to delve deeper into the Bushman people and their hunter-gatherer lifestyle. We went on a few bushwalks with him, and let me tell you that this guy knows his stuff. He was easily able to spot snakes, spiders, chameleons, and even the smallest beetles that I could have never found. We were able to learn about his people and how they have adapted over time.''At the end of each day, we enjoyed a sundowner with Bino and Buti. They would lead us to the most special places to catch the sunset and would tell us stories of their villages back home. We love learning about new and different cultures, so being able to talk and learn from them was exceptionally rewarding.\xa0Trampling around the Namibian desert is nice, but it is so much more enjoyable when you have local people that are able to guide you.\xa0We decided not to take part in a hot air balloon ride or the scenic flight over the desert, but many people do! This is a fantastic way to see the best of Namibia and can all be arranged while\xa0you are sipping on gin and tonics by the desert pool.''Read More: {''Namib Desert Exploring: A Field Guide To Driving Southern Namibia''}''Why did we love our stay at Wolwedans?''I’m sure after seeing some of these photos you may be wondering what a place like this costs? I have to admit that Wolwedans is far from a budget destination, and everyone traveling there knows that. However expensive it may be, here is why I’m okay with the costs and why we absolutely loved it.''The Conservation''Being a sustainable eco-lodge isn’t a cheap venture.\xa0There is going to be some setup costs to keep the NamibRand Nature Reserve so pristine. The Wolwedans team have taken years to build up the base camp to what it is today. \xa0The solar power, the water treatment, the plant nursery, and everything else has taken time and money to build. It feels good to stay at a place that is so committed to the fair treatment of the earth and its beauty. Every lodge is constructed in an eco-friendly manner, and every piece of Wolwedans can be removed easily so that one could never even tell there was a lodge in the desert to begin with.''Namibia is also an extremely dry country and there has been a drought there for the past four years. Wolwedans has therefore intervened and set up watering holes every 10 km so that the desert wildlife doesn’t completely die off.''The Staff''There are just about 80 staff members working for Wolwedans, and every single one of them played a special role\xa0in the whole operation. The staff here are well\xa0trained and many go to hospitality or tourism school in Namibia. Even better, there is a school at Wolwedans teaching locals how to work in hospitality. Many of these students end up working for\xa0Wolwedans or other lodges across the country. We also loved that we were given a personal guide for our time at Wolwedans, a bushman from the Caprivi Strip. To sweeten the deal every night a staff member sings\xa0the dinner menu in their local language. The staff were incredibly welcoming and help create a wonderful atmosphere.''The Food''The food here is top notch African food. You won’t leave breakfast, lunch, or dinner feeling hungry or unhealthy for that matter! Breakfast usually kicks off with a choice of yogurt, fruit, eggs, or meat and cheese. Lunch is always some form of salad with ingredients grown right from base camp. Dinner is a seven-course extravaganza\xa0that will make you feel good about walking back to your tent in the thick sand.''The Beauty''From the desert, to the lodges, to the morning views – everything is just so darn beautiful and dream worthy. I know that nature is free, but waking up to the sun rising over the red dunes (while still in a comfy bed) is something that will truly take your breath away.''I just have to wonder if you’re ready to get to Namibia and stay at Wolwedans yet?''No? Maybe I can change your mind with this video…''How to get to Wolwedans''People are able to self-drive to Wolwedans with their own vehicle. A 4×4 is not necessary but recommended. Once at reception, the lodge staff will take it from there and all worries can be left in the car! Wolwedans also has its own runway and flying in is a popular option.''Getting to Wolwedans and Leaving''Wolwedans is located about 2 hours away from Sossusvlei and 400 km from Windhoek. We decided to take a different route and drove in from the Kalahari (Mariental\xa0) which took us about 4.5 hours.''Check here for exact directions.''Average cost''Wolwedans is not a budget destination, it is a truly special place in the heart of the desert. Rates start at $5850 Namibian dollars per person per night. A large chunk of the rate paid goes towards conservation up keep. We consider the payment to go towards a good cause by directly helping NamibRand Reserve and the beautiful Namibian people.''Best time to go''Wolwedans''is open all year round. High season in Namibia is April to October, with rains and summer heat setting arriving \xa0in November. However, we visited the lodge mid-November and had fantastic weather the whole time.''Thank you to Wolwedans for sponsoring our stay! As always, all opinions remain our own''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''Experiencing Wolwedans Dunes Lodge and More in Namibia''was last modified:''August 25th, 2017''by''Natasha''Besides the killer landscapes, great food, luxury lodges, hip spots, and adventure activities, there’s one aspect of Cape Town we haven’t been talking about – and that is the insanely high prices of accommodation in the city. It can be difficult to find good budget accommodation in Cape Town. While food, drinks, activities, and commodities like petrol may be affordable, where you lay your head down at night is anything but. For those on a more backpackers\xa0budget in Cape Town, this can be a serious problem.''What do we do when faced with high accommodation costs in cities? We turn towards hostels. We’ve shared our''“love” of hostels before''and think they are great for many reasons. Too many people believe travel to be an extremely expensive luxury, but for many, it is very attainable and affordable. The strengths lie in knowing where to spend your dough. The two biggest costs in regards to travel are accommodation and transportation. That’s where hostels like''Ashanti''can be our saving grace on a budget.''An Affordable Place to Stay in Cape Town''For stays longer than a week we usually turn to Airbnb, however not even that proved to be helpful in Cape Town. Not to mention sometimes we want some travel companions instead of feeling lonely all the time, which can usually be found in shared accommodation. So, we took a look at the hostels around Cape Town. There are a lot of\xa0brand new hostels\xa0in town, but we opt to\xa0go for reliability and history when it comes to choosing things. One of the''most established hostels in Cape Town is Ashanti,''they’ve been providing beds to backpackers for over two decades now.''The hostel offers all levels of accommodation. Starting with camping and moving up to dorms, private rooms, and guesthouse style accommodation. The main property has a pool, billiards table, restaurant, bar, modern bathrooms, lockers for the dorms, and a pretty freaking cool back deck.''The location is also super crucial with regards to accommodation. Many of the hostels in Cape Town are located along Long Street, a busy bar street. Personally, we like to get a good nights sleep while still being centrally located. Ashanti is located in the Gardens neighborhood which provides good walking access to the city with\xa0quiet and safe surrounding streets.''Once the basic necessities of good accommodation are met we start looking at other aspects such as design, charm, and services. To us, that’s the difference between just a bed and a great hostel. Ashanti’s main house is built in one of the many historic dutch colonial homes that add to the charm of The Mother City. It’s impossible to find beautiful wood floors, a grand staircase, and 8m tall ceilings in a brand new place.''Most importantly Ashanti has the claim to fame for housing one of the best toilets in the world. That’s right – the best toilet in the world… Anyways, there is an awesome bathroom at Ashanti that has nice big open window facing right out to the iconic Table Mountain.\xa0You won’t even need a book or a phone to look at on this bathroom break.''The Ashanti Travel Desk''The best travel advice we get almost always comes from first-hand experiences and being able to have a conversation with someone that knows the logistics. Even as we travel through Namibia much of our planning came from fellow South Africans and Namibians themselves. Most travelers do not have the time to self-organize and plan a trip through a difficult continent like Africa the''Ashanti Travel desk''is able to offer just that. It’s a travel desk located in the main lobby that can help guests book day tours down to Cape Point or all the way up to Dar Es Salaam on an overland tour. They can also help those not outside guests with their online service to help all foreigners plan their holiday trip.''After two months in Cape Town, we really felt a dent in our wallets. It wasn’t because of the food, beer, or entertainment but instead because of the prices for accommodation in the city. There really is no quicker way to have a bad time in a new city than booking the wrong accommodation; however, you can’t go wrong with Ashanti experience. We loved experiencing the place and consider them one of the best budget accommodation options in the city.''You May Also Like:''If You’re Looking for a Cheap Place to Stay in Cape Town – Read This''was last modified:''July 25th, 2017''by''Cameron''Why Travel Africa?''In case you’re not up to date. I am Cameron Seagle and I travel the world with my partner Natasha Alden. We run this lovely blog here and we’re currently traveling across Africa in an FJ62. You may ask, why travel Africa?''Read More'': {''HashtagAfrica – An Overland Journey''}''Tasha and I both have our own reasons for choosing the path we’re on. To many it may appear we have it all figured out and must have the best lives and this is simply not true. We find ourselves\xa0constantly out of sorts. For the first eight months travel blogging I had deep feelings of regret. I felt that I had''thrown away a career in New York City''at first, and it was one that I had genuinely wanted. In fact, I still see a lot of myself in that avenue. (''It’s film/production industry, not finance or something'') I’m just coming at it from a new angle.''After two frustrating months in Cape Town trying to purchase our truck we left thinking,''“Why on earth did we just spend all our time doing that?”''We could be anywhere in the world right now. \xa0The crowded beaches of Thailand actually started to sound pretty damn nice. Making a few bucks and living comfortably for nothing? That is what our peers in the travel blogging world are doing, why aren’t we? There are also plenty of overland safari operators who make travel through Africa pretty easy. Instead we spent a bunch of money to buy an old truck and drive it across a continent with some of the world’s worst infrastructure. Not to mention the expensive mud terrain tires we just had to purchase today in Swakopmund, Namibia ($500 for two!). Did''I mention South Africa kicked us out when we left''? Things are going great and we’ve barely started!''What we are doing = zero sense.''We put our money into an old truck.''We bought tons of camping gear which will be have to get rid of at the end of this''Petrol = $$$$$$$$$''Africa does prevent safety issues''It is not easy!''Internet is a valuable commodity we’ve put at risk.''Time''Lot’s of energy''Health risks (Ever heard of malaria?)''However, it is spectacular''I have a lot of doubts in my mind if I’m being honest. However, there are a plethora of reasons for traveling Africa. We’ve already begun the journey and I’m writing this from on top of a 200m tall sand dune in the Namib desert. No joke! We live in an incredible world that is rapidly changing. We are lucky to be young and still have so much life ahead of us. However, we don’t want to waste some of the best years of our life working for someone else. In Africa you can witness some of the most spectacular sights that the earth has to offer. Just watch one of the many nature documentaries on\xa0Africa! Here life is vibrant, wild, and unique.''Read More:''{''15 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''}''We will not allow fear to govern our actions''There’s a whole lot of fear governing people’s actions these days. The United States, our home, is deeply divided at the moment. There are the Trump supporters who allowed fear and the feelings of disenfranchisement to enable their vote and those who are afraid of what a president Trump will mean for our country. \xa0We’re not going to let fear of some travel woes and frustrations govern where we travel.''Africa is Original''Everyday we think about where we could be in the world. We are fortunate enough to be able to choose our next destination. However beautiful Iceland, Thailand, and France are, traveling there is just not that original anymore. It’s why blogging with these places in mind can get a bad rap, and it’s sometimes well deserved. Writing and photography are well regarded to us. That is essentially what travel blogging is if you don’t bring in the vanity and lack of creativity that permeates through so much of it. So, we’re approaching Africa as photographers and writers and we will never be sharing photos that aren’t our own.''Right Spot, The Right Time''When we lived in''New York I spent a lot of time on the subway''and working with professional production equipment, it’s not as glamorous as it sounds. I had a lot of free time to listen to podcasts while I worked with the equipment and rode the train. I also\xa0began a new obsession and dreamt of becoming an award winning photographer. I studied who I respected and several things stuck out to me.''The biggest was an\xa0interview with a long time Nat Geo explorer. I recall them\xa0saying they\xa0were “not the best photographer,” but they\xa0were always there. It it not\xa0about being able to get that perfect glossy shot of the\xa0mountain. It is\xa0the fact you\xa0traveled for one week and climbed the\xa0mountain at the crack of dawn to get the photograph. When I was more naive I often found myself going, “I could have done that had “I been there,”” but that was just it! It is the effort. It’s knowing where to stand and when to press the shutter. This is us knowing where to stand.''Africa for me is the first of many efforts in establishing myself, and us as world explorers. I have said I’ve always dreamed of being like''Indiana Jones''! Heck, I’m already planning\xa0the next big adventure, and it’s going to be awesome. I’ll talk about that once we finish up here first, though. For me right now driving a truck across Africa is my way of chasing my dreams. Maybe one day you’ll see my images on the front page of a magazine, or on a coffee table book, or listen to me speak about my travels on a podcast.''You May Also Like:''Why I’m Traveling Africa and Chasing Dreams''was last modified:''November 21st, 2016''by''Cameron''What is a Riad?''Throughout our whole six week trip in Morocco, we always stayed in a riad. What is a riad you ask? A traditional''Moroccan riad''is essentially a rectangle house with an interior courtyard. There are typically different rooms on each of the four sides, and most riads are at least two stories high. The middle often has a courtyard with a garden and serves as the “lounge” and eating place for guests. The courtyard in the middle is typically open from the top and is the houses only source of natural light. Often on the top of the riad is a roof for lounging outside and often have a pool.''Riads are definitely a part of''traveling to Morocco'', and no visit to the country is complete without staying in one. Riads can be found in virtually every city. Riads are usually found in the medinas of Morocco and for us, they offered a complete escape from the madness going on outside. Once you step into these mentioned riads you will feel like heaven.''The Best Riads in Morocco''The Best Riads in Marrakech''Riad Kniza Marrakech''From the food to the staff, to the entertainment the vibe at''Riad Kniza''is one that will enchant any visitor. Riad Kniza is located in the heart of the old Marrakech medina and dates all the way back to the 18th century. Rooms are spacious and built from traditional artisan materials. Marrakech is the entrance into Morocco for many people and a stay at Riad Kniza will give you a glimpse into the old beauty of the country. Staying here will definitely answer your question''what is a riad.''Check Prices Here!''Есть один вывод, к которому мы пришли во время путешествия по Индии, правда слишком поздно, поэтому впечатление от поездки несколько подпортилось 😕 В треш-городах нельзя экономить на отелях и в Марокко это правило работает на 100%! #mintandjasminetravels #morocco #marrakech #riad #neverstopexploring #instatravel #travelgram #vscotravel #марокко #марракеш #риад #путешествия #вокругсвета''A post shared by''Аня 🌿Москва''(@mintandjasmine) on''Aug 1, 2016 at 1:15pm PDT''Royal Mansour''To truly feel like Arabian royalty then a stay at''Royal Mansour''is a must. Once you walk through these doors you can forget about the loud noises, smell, and chaotic streets of Marrakech. Pure relaxing and bliss is awaiting you at this jaw-dropping riad fit for a king. The food here is consistently reported as excellent and spa services are also available. Each room here comes with a personal little garden and balcony with a roof top pool on top overlooking Marrakech.''Check Prices Here!''Sparkle and shine. ✨ Thank you to @koentadyy for capturing the festive spirit in our lobby. #royalmansour #marrakech #morocco #festive #festive #pink #levieenrose #luxury #hotel #travel #interiordesign''A post shared by''Royal Mansour Marrakech''(@royalmansour) on''Dec 27, 2016 at 7:39am PST''Best Riads in Essaouira''Riad Chbanate''A charming and romantic riad located in the seaside city of Essaouira. Visitors will instantly be welcomed in with a warm cup of Moroccan mint tea upon arrival. Once finished all guest will be shown to their rooms which feature beautiful bathrooms with oversized showers\xa0and comfortable bed. Riad Chbanate even features its own hammam where guest can relax. If you haven’t tried a traditional hammam yet this is a must for a rejuvenating feeling body.''Check Prices Here!'"Aladdin's hule🙈 #essaouira #morroco #vacation #bathtub #riad #aladdin #spa #wellness #love #relax #MeAndMyBoo @hamudenben"'A post shared by''🦋Susanne Holm🍀''(@sanneholm1) on''Jul 18, 2015 at 12:37pm PDT''Best Riads in Fes''Karawan Riad''Look no further than''Karawan Riad''for the crown jewel of Fes. \xa0Each room here is tastefully decorated with gold and brown trim. The food here is an eccentric mix of Moroccan and international cuisine accompanied with great service. After a day in the''Fes medina'', you will want somewhere calming to lay your head and Karawan Riad is just the place to call home.''Check Prices Here!''Inside @karawanriad in Fes .. such a perfectly designed hotel 💜 #morocco''A post shared by''Rachel Jones ✈ Hippie in Heels''(@hippieinheelsblog) on''Oct 16, 2016 at 5:34am PDT''Le Jardin Des Biehn''In the very heart of the Fes Medina is the charming''Le Jardin Des Biehn''. Here you’ll be able to relax among the flowers, fruits, and olive trees surrounding the riad. Here you’ll find many things to do like relax in the hammam, read a book at the Fez Cafe or learn the art of Moroccan cuisine with a cooking course. \xa0The rooms here vary in size and design so you’ll be able to get just what you want!''Check Prices Here!''From the #blue pearl of #Chefchaouen to this #oasis of #green  #GVontheroad #travel #travelgram #instatravel #instatraveling #traveller #travellife #travelogue #travelphotography #jetsetter #wanderlust #explore #nomad #fes #fez #lejardindesbiehn #morocco #africa #riad #garden #mosaic #design''A post shared by''Gastronomic Voyage by Patricia''(@gastronovoyage) on''Dec 24, 2016 at 11:27am PST''The Best Riad in Casablanca''Riad Jnane Sherazade''Not only one of the best riads in all of Casablanca but also all of Morocco.''Riad Jnane Sherazade''is a luxurious blend between \xa0Moroccan and French influence. Fresh local ingredients make up the dishes at the restaurant here, and in true fashion, you’ll be able to find yourself at a hammam. There is also a smoking room and tennis courts and golf course nearby!''Check Prices Here!''#desayuno en #casablanca #riadjnaneSherazade #mesientosherezada #breakfast #breakfastinmorocco 😊''A post shared by''yuri_vallejo''(@yuri_vallejo) on''Apr 18, 2014 at 3:08am PDT''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Morocco''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Morocco:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home''in Morocco we use Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Morocco:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We didn’t drink the water from the taps in Morocco. Instead, we filtered everything with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''I know the internet is great, but sometimes it just doesn’t feel as great as a real book. We like to travel with''Lonely Planet''for those wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''A Guide to Chefchaouen • Morocco’s Blue City in the Sky''What to Pack for Morocco: A Dress Code Guide''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''All About Morocco’s Blue City, Chefchaouen • The Ultimate Guide''October 27, 2017''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''May 2, 2017''What is a Riad? Here are the Six Most Beautiful Riads in Morocco''was last modified:''April 10th, 2018''by''Natasha''We didn’t know it when we arrived, but it only took a couple days to figure out. Cape Town, South Africa was a food lover’s heaven. It may just be the New York of Africa, for every corner has some amazing new restaurant popping up. From Ethiopian, to Mexican, to Thai Cape Town has something for every palette, budget, and diet. Don’t ask me if I found a good''sushi spot either''. Just read on to find out where you should be eating and drinking on your Cape Town experience!''Our Favorite Restaurants in Cape Town''If you are in the mood for sushi…''Try Salushi''For fusion sushi at an incredibly affordable place''try Salushi'', right in the heart of Claremont. The bar and atmosphere is perfect for relaxing in after a long day out and about in Cape Town. The menu is huge and filled with many delicious options for sushi. We decided to try a bit of everything here and came out more than satisfied. Our favorite was their signature “Prince’s Prawn Kisses.” If prawn and strawberry, wrapped in fresh avocado doesn’t tantalize your taste buds then I don’t know what will. Salushi\xa0features high-quality ingredients and affordable prices and I believe it will sky rocket up as one of the best sushi restaurants in Cape Town. Check their''Facebook page''for some of their many specials.''Try Sevruga''Dine in the''V & A Harbour at Sevruga'', in a perfect location overlooking the water. Sevruga is an elegant restaurant which specializes in sushi and dim sun. Their rolls are massive and for the first time ever we had to bring a couple pieces of sushi home with us from Sevruga. Even if you’re not in the mood for fish, the menu here features entrees like Springbok Carpaccio,\xa0Mozzarella Salad, and\xa0Potato Gnocchi.\xa0 We would suggest making reservations on weekends, good food and a waterfront location means this place\xa0fills up fast!''Check them out on Facebook''and find yourself at one of the best sushi restaurants on the waterfront in Cape Town.''If you are looking for an entertaining night out in Cape Town''Try Gold Restaurant''Oh my we had a fun at night at''Gold Restaurant''. Gold\xa0brings African cuisine to a whole new level every night. Start your night with a 30-minute drum story, followed by a hand washing ceremony before being graciously led to your table for the evening. For the next two hours\xa0you will engage with the entertainers and waitstaff from all over Africa while trying delicious drinks and African inspired cuisine from around the continent. There are many dance and song numbers by the performers throughout dinner so there is never a dull moment. It may seem a little bit touristy, and although we are usually not up for that our night at Golds went above and beyond our expectation and was some of the best African food in Cape Town.''Check them out on Facebook!''{Check out hotel rates in Cape Town here}''If you are looking to have a night out with friends''Try The Mess''The Mess is a brand new restaurant located in Greenpoint that is anything, but a mess. We came here after a long day out and about in the city and instantly felt relaxed.''The Mess''is in a beautiful, yet cozy building with plenty of space and big open windows to let the light flow in. The decor is chic and modern and is the perfect place to gather with friends for a night out with with some cocktails. We were craving a margarita, which can be hard to come by when traveling. So as soon as we saw it on the menu at The Mess we ordered it and almost drank the delicious cocktail in one gulp. The food here is served in a tapas/sharing style. The menu is small enough to not make your head spin, but large enough to offer a fun variety with brilliant flavors to tantalize all senses.''Check them out on Facebook!''Try Beluga''It’s Wednesday night and you can’t imagine anything better than a night out with friends? Then head to the hip and eccentric''Beluga restaurant''in Greenpoint. Beluga features some inspirational fish dishes, as well as a things like fried calamari, beef carpaccio, and ostrich filet. They have both a winter and summer tasting menu, which features great 3-course dinner meals. We had the most fun trying out the fun and trendy cocktails here while enjoying the Cape Town atmosphere around us.''See their specials here!''If you are looking for the perfect date night spot''Try Rueben’s''After a few months of working and exploring in Cape Town, we knew we were in need for a good date night. So we made our way to one of Cape Town’s most expensive hotels and decided to have dinner in their fancy restaurant.''Reuben’s Restaurant''is located on the ground floor of the One and Only near the V & A Waterfront. We went with a three-course meal here and were absolutely blown away by the mussels and calamari starters. We aren’t big meat eaters but we both decided to splurge here and go for the Springbok Steak paired with a local pinotage for our main. Every single item here was exceptional and the service was on point. A three-course meal like we had here would have cost us at least $120 back home in the states, but here in South Africa it was half that. South Africa is definitely a place where you can eat like a king at affordable prices on date night! \xa0Although the restaurant is big it is advisable to make reservations in advance (especially on weekends).''If\xa0you are seeking pre-dinner cocktails''Try Tigers Milk''Whether you’re in Muizenberg, Long Street, Claremont, or Century City you can always start your night off right with a few drinks and appetizers at Tiger’s Milk Restuarant. The general vibe is relaxed and cool any night of the week. We loved trying all the craft beers here, brought to us by the fantastic waitstaff.''{Check out hotel rates in Cape Town here}''Try Den Anker''Set in the heart of the V & A Waterfront, Den Anker specialized in Belgium beers and seafood. It’s a great place to catch a quick bite to eat on a beautiful day before you make your way to a movie. Oh, and they have Cameron’s favorite beer on tap, La Chouffe. However, be careful at about 9.6 abv it’s not be messed with.''If it is lunch time in Cape Town''Try the Sidewalk Cafe''This little cafe''is located right on, well, a sidewalk. The cafe is small and quaint and reminds me of simpler times. The menu here is small, but packs a punch of value. They have wonderful vegetarians sandwiches and salads as well as 2 for 1 cocktails on\xa0most days. Bonus points here for the decent WiFi connection!''If you are looking for some coffee and sweets''Try Truth Coffee''It’s hard to say coffee and Cape Town in the same sentence without mentioning Truth Coffee. This steampunk style coffee shop has won''numerous awards throughout the world''of coffee and when we stepped in we saw why. From the decor\xa0to the service, to the coffee everything at Truth is combined for a top notch cafe experience.''{Check out hotel rates in Cape Town here}''Try Lady Bonin’s Tea Bar''Lady Bonin’s''is a tea shop located right on the busy Long Street. It’s tiny and easy to pass by, so make sure you keep your eyes out. They have a wonderful selection of teas to purchase, as well as drink right there. Our favorite thing to do was sit on the back patio there with a Matcha latte and Matcha ball. Yum!''Try Charly’s Bakery''Charly’s Bakery''is somewhat of institution in Cape Town, and for good reason! Charly’s has been specializing in cakes since 1989 and is located in District 6. Not a cake fan? Don’t worry! There are plenty of cookies, brownies, and chocolate to go around!''No matter where you eat in Cape Town, I’m certain your stomach will be happy.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Cape Town''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cape Town:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in Cape Town:''City Bowl'',''Camps Bay'',''Green Point'', and''Sea Point''.''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in\xa0Cape Town:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Cape Town fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''You Should Be Eating and Drinking in Cape Town Right Now''was last modified:''January 28th, 2017''by''Natasha''So, the big announcement is out! We are officially driving across Africa in “Charlie,” our newest addition to The World Pursuit family. The 1989 Land Cruiser is awesome!''He is a workhorse, a 4×4 Tonka trunk equipped with a bush bar, roof rack, and pull out drawers. However, buying a car in South Africa is no simple task. Here is our story.''UPDATE:''We sold our car in Africa too! Check out that story here.''Like others, you may be wondering what the truck cost, so let’s just get how much the cost out of the way.''Charlie cost us a whopping 60,000 ZAR or about $4300 USD at the time of writing.''Never mind the cost, though. The issue here was that we were two Americans trying\xa0to buy a car in South Africa.\xa0I just want to call the whole process “''a bureaucratic\xa0African nightmare.''”''Here is the beginning of our fight to get\xa0our car.''We knew we needed our own car to travel through Africa the way we wanted. We want to travel to remote destinations and camp in the African bush. We want to see the villages and interact with the local people deeper than what a traditional overland trip offers. And we are also planning to stay at some beautiful lodges, in the middle of nowhere Africa.''Anvil Bay – Only Accessibly by 4×4 or Chopper''Buying a Car in South Africa''We set a budget, we transferred money to our bank accounts, and we began to look for a car. We rented a car week after week in Cape Town, so that we could visit all the dealerships located in the area. We scoured the internet and called the pros. After weeks of searching, we found our Land Cruiser that would get us through Africa. He was unadvertised online and sat right on the corner of Voortrekker Rd with a giant sign that said “4×4.” We were just on the right road at the right time when we saw him and it took us less than an hour to realize he was the right car for the job.''But that was all\xa0child’s play.''For a foreigner to register a car in South Africa and get the title to the car, you need to present a''Traffic Registration Number'', or TRN. \xa0A TRN must be applied for at the Motor Vehicle Department and can take anywhere from one day to six weeks to process. When you apply for a TRN you need to bring in (SAPS) certified copies of your passport, international driver’s license, and proof of permanent address in South Africa. Sounds simple right?''Well, this is Africa so we knew going in that obtaining this TRN would be anything, but simple. We both have a valid regular US drivers license, which, for those that don’t know serves as an international drivers license around the world. We had the international drivers license, we used the address of the Airbnb we were staying in Cape Town, and we also had a 90-day tourist visa for South Africa.''That’s where the problem was – our tourist visa. Before tourists could get a TRN with just their stamped tourist visa, but rules keep changing and this is no longer the case. Now foreigners need to have a more substantial visa – think student visa, work visa, or pretty much anything longer than a year.''We decided to try our luck with our tourist visa anyway because the process to get another visa was a whole other deal in itself. We assumed that luck and a\xa0very nice lenient person at the Motor Vehicle Department would be on our side. First woman at the Civic Center in Cape Town shot us down within 30 seconds. “''No visa, No TRN.''” We tried again at a different office a few days later, and Cameron convinced the workers there that they should take the application. They took it, said all should be good and told us to come back in four days.''Four days later and no TRN. “Try tomorrow,” they said.\xa0We were running low on time; we had to be out of South Africa in two weeks as our tourist visas really were up. So being advised by the traffic employees we tried the next day.''“We can’t find your form, try tomorrow,” they said now. What in the world? Now they claimed they have lost the form.''Our stress levels were skyrocketing. We already found the perfect car, put a deposit down on him, and had the cash in hand. We wanted\xa0this car! We started to reassess our options. Should we rent a car through''Southern Africa''? Should we just resort to public transport? Should we abandon''Hashtag Africa''? Should we just get the hell out of Africa and get our asses to Southeast Asia where it’s easy to travel, cheap, and the internet is plentiful?''No''. We must accomplish this task.''After five more trips back to the Traffic Department and many agonizing nights, the South African Traffic Department eventually denied our application and we lost all hope. The rejection was based on the first stamp in our passport that had an expiration date on when we could apply for such things. Inevitably it was our fault that we waited too long to apply for this TRN. However, when we landed in South Africa for the first time we had no idea we were going to want to buy a car in the country. \xa0Even if we applied the very first day we got to South Africa I doubt they would have given us the TRN on a tourist visa, but I have heard of it happening.''We went over our options for how to buy this car. We went through situations over and over and eventually came to the conclusion that it was the car or public transport. With all of our expensive electronics, we knew that public transport through Africa would be a real problem and would severely limit us to main towns. We explained our problem to a couple friends and family and they asked us why don’t we just rent a car to travel through Africa.''So, why don’t we just rent a car for Africa?''Many people keep asking this question, and I believe it is a fair question to ask if we were only in Africa for a month or two. However, we have been dreaming about traveling Africa extensively and renting a car for this is just not a viable option.''Here is why:''Besides South Africa, just about every country on our route requires a 4×4 vehicle. We witnessed first hand just how bad the''roads are in Mozambique''when all we had was a 2×4. After a few weeks traveling the country in a Nissan Bakkie, we had had enough. We knew we needed a 4×4 to get through Africa.''Do you know how much 4×4 rental costs on average throughout Africa? $100/day on the very low end. Wowza… That means on just our month long trek through Namibia we would be looking for a rental for $3000! That’s just one country we are planning on going to! We plan on driving our Land Cruiser around for''at least''six more months. Now math is not my strong suit, but by my calculations that would cost us at least $18,000. $14,000 more than what our amazing Land Cruiser cost us – and that’s not including petrol or the inevitable dings and scratches the car would get.''Not to mention:''For every border you cross overland you need a letter from the owner of the vehicle stating that you can drive across the border. Almost all rental car companies charge anywhere from $50 to $150 per border crossing letter. That’s one expensive piece of paper.''Speaking of…''It’s interesting to know that any car rented in the Southern Africa countries generally don’t let you travel further than''Zimbabwe''with a rental. \xa0We have plans to go as far north as Ethiopia or Sudan so this isn’t an option for us.''Oh, yea and…''I literally hate dealing with rental car companies – especially in Africa! I hate worrying about every little ding and scratch we may put on the car. I hate thinking about sleazy companies\xa0having our\xa0credit card to charge whatever they want on. I hate all their lies and deceitfulness and little “extras” they try to make on every booking.''We rented three separate cars in South Africa, and every single time we returned the car the rental company tried to charge us for something ridiculous. The first was when we rented our bakkie for two months with Hertz throughout''Mozambique'',''Lesotho'',''South Africa'', and''Swaziland''. We brought the car back completely unscathed, but they still tried to squeeze 300 Rand out of us to “clean the sand\xa0out of\xa0the floor mats.” Really?''We rented a second car in Cape Town with a not so great company called “Rent a Cheapie.” What we had rented was indeed…a cheapie. When we brought back the car to them they also got 300 Rand out of us for a pin nail sized scratch on the hubcap. I’m convinced this how they make their money.''The third car we rented in Cape Town was with SiXT, a company I usually prefer to rent with all over the world. When we brought the car back after three weeks of driving they signed off the papers and said we were all good on the car. I checked my credit card statement a week later and they charged us for not having enough petrol in the car. This was false and even if we didn’t bring it back with the correct amount – they had already signed off on the gas meter.''If Charlie happens to get a scratch on him?''Oh well.''Oops, we ran into a ditch, springbok, or traffic cone. Let’s not worry about it. I cherish the freedom of having our own car.''With one of our extremely shitty rentals in Cape Town''Lastly''We have been driving the car for one week now and have already gotten two offers to buy the car. This is a four-wheel-drive Toyota Land Cruiser in Africa. Or in other words, a very hot commodity. When we bought Charlie we thought of him as an investment. We got a great deal on the car for $4300, and we hope to sell the car back for that much plus some''(Update – WE DID)''. Assuming we don’t completely total Charlie, we have every hope that we will at least break even on the purchase at the end of the trip. We may cry at the end when we have to give him up, but our pockets will be smiling again.''Now, back to the''bureaucratic\xa0African nightmare story''So they denied our application for the TRN and we had now one week left to get out of South Africa. We turned our problem to the internet and sent out one last email that could make or break us.''We sent an email to the only people we could trust in Cape Town, Heye and Angela – the lodge owners of the beautiful''Travessia Beach Lodge in Mozambique''(where we had stayed earlier this year – highly recommend!). We asked if they could register the car in their name and thankfully they happily agreed! This became our only option to drive the car out of South Africa, but obviously, this choice could have only been available with a South African that we completely trusted not to screw us over. Although we paid for and bought the car, the registration is still and will remain in their name. To drive the car across borders we just needed a letter from the\xa0“owner” giving us power of attorney over the vehicle. So we could\xa0drive it wherever we wanted in Africa (remember that $50 form the rental companies try to get you with? You can write it yourself…)''Our power of attorney letter pretty much stated that Cameron has full power over the vehicle and he can drive it to each individual country we listed on the form. The letter had the vehicle engine number, registration number, and described the make and model. The letter was then signed and notarized by Heye. We took the letter to be lamented along with the title of the vehicle and a copy of Heye’s passport.''Travessia Beach Lodge in Mozambique – Accessible by 4×4''So, three days later and after months of stress, worry, uncertainty, and researching we finally had our very own wheels and it felt''GOOD''. \xa0Now time to get the hell out of South Africa. We left Cape Town feeling great as we made our way north to Namibia with Charlie. We had been in South Africa a total of 87 days and had a 90-day tourist visa – so although there was so much more to be explored we felt comfortable leaving. Until we got to the border.''“You’ve overstayed your visa, you’re both undesirable to this country,”''said the customs officers.''What was supposed to be a quick exit just became an\xa0issue? I knew what she was referring to; she was referring to the three-month date from when we FIRST entered South Africa. I tried to explain to her that we had traveled into Mozambique, Lesotho, and Swaziland and had entered and exited South Africa on three separate occasions. That didn’t matter though we had 90 days in South Africa since the very first time we entered, the clock did not start and stop every time you exited\xa0and re-entered.''Maletsunyane Falls in Lesotho''Being a travel perfectionist, I\xa0researched this before this dilemma. There was little to no information online – even on the government website. The only information I found was in old Lonely Planet threads saying you could enter and exit and it didn’t count against your 90 days.''“But there is no information anywhere on your government site that says what we did was prohibited,” I pleaded with her.''Her response was the typical African response that I still can’t tell if I hate or love. “Yes I know the info is very vague, but that’s just the way it is.”''I’ve never overstayed a visa. Even through the''Schengen Zone in Europe''I always make sure to leave before my 90 days are up. I know that Cameron and I did not do our due diligence on the\xa0matter and broke the rules in South Africa, unintentional or not. Now what?''Cameron and I are now labeled “Undesirables” to South Africa and are not permitted to enter again until who knows when. I feel a bit like Snowden in the US. Undesirable (and much more). Good thing we have lots more of Africa to explore!''Update 2018!''We get many emails from people asking us how to travel around Southern Africa and do what we did. Here are some of our most common questions answered.''Insurance:''We get a lot of questions about insurance for our car. We had an old 1989 Land Cruiser, so we chose not to cover the car for damages. For liability insurance, we paid for''COMESA''. A third party insurer that works in many African countries. You have to buy this at a local insurance company and you will have to do your research and due diligence to find a correct one. If you don’t have COMESA third party insurance can typically be bought at the border of the country you are entering. We bought ours in at Madison General in Lusaka about two months after we left South Africa.''We often get asked if we had any border issues with our paperwork''. We only had one issue with our paperwork in Africa. That was at the Kariba/Siavonga border on the Zimbabwe side. They stated that we needed a police clearance letter stating that the vehicle was not stolen to get out of Zambia. You don’t need this and we knew it so we held our ground for about 30 minutes until they eventually let us pass. I believe they were looking for a bribe. If you have time\xa0and are worried it doesn’t hurt to go to the police station and get this clearance letter before you leave South Africa.''If you know you want to buy a car in South Africa''start the process as soon as you can. Much of our situation was stressful because we had a lack of time.''We received several “fines” while driving across Africa.''All fines were paid on the spot and can range anywhere between $4-30. Don’t expect them to mail you your fine in the mail outside of South Africa. If you don’t have cash on you to pay your fine chances are you will have to go to an ATM or police station to pay it right there, unless lady luck is on your side and you sweet talk your way out of paying.''We found the most crooked police''to be in Tanzania.''If you have more questions''the “Overlanding Africa” Facebook group is a great resource.''Above all remember…''that this was our experience buying a car in South Africa. Everyone’s hassles and joys will be different and what worked for us may not work for you. This is Africa and there are no hard set rules for anything, but you’ll find that out along the journey.''Cross-Border Letter Example''We get a ton of questions and emails about the cross-border letter and registering the car in someone’s name. Seriously, it’s at least a couple emails and messages a week.''To answer everyone’s question. You are creating a legal document called “Power of Attorney” that gives you rights over the vehicle, such as driving it over borders or taking it to a mechanic. Yes, it needs to be certified by a commissioner of deeds or a notary. You do not need to be present for this, but whoever has the car legally filed under their name does. I have attached a blank border letter that we created and used. It never presented any problems.''Cross Border Letter''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in South Africa:''Find the best hotel deal at HotelsCombined.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home''in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read Next:''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''15 Things We’ve Learned From Overlanding Africa''A Namibian Road Trip: Our Itinerary Across the Namib Desert''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Buying a Car in South Africa and Being Undesirable''was last modified:''April 26th, 2018''by''Natasha''We just left''Cape Town''after spending two months in the city. It was our city stay that wasn’t supposed to be, but with each passing day in Africa, we became more and more hungry for our own car. Hence, the long stay in South Africa’s most popular city as we tried to find our wheels to''tackle a safari across Africa''.''Cape Town was our last stop in South Africa. We were told by Afrikaners that we were “saving the best till last.” \xa0Others just straight up told us to leave wherever we were at and head for the Cape immediately. When we arrived we knew we were in a completely different South Africa than before. It’s a place encompassed with natural beauty, while still maintaining that city feel. It is a''vibrant city packed with things to do all year round''. A place that experiences four seasons in one day, yet locals seem to walk everywhere in their bare feet.''When we stay in places for a longer amount of time we get worried our images will run dry, our Instagram will get stale. However, we hate leaving our camera anywhere inside when we travel around Cape Town, and even have found ourselves in a debate about how many Instagram photos we should post in a day – should we do two or three? We even stayed at''one of our favorite hotels of all time''just outside the city, and when you add the''wine lands just outside Cape Town''it is all the more appealing.''This is our collection of a September and October spent in and around Cape Town. Just remember to''choose the best camera''for your travel needs.”''Table Mountain From Lion’s Head''Looking out at the dramatic Sentinel mountain peak''Driving along the coast''On Top of Table Mountain''Kalk Bay Harbor''Atop Lion’s Head''Muizenberg Beach''The Boulders Beach Penguins giving us a show''Watching the clouds roll in''Sandy Bay''The colorful\xa0Cape Malay neighborhood of Bo-Kaap''Little Lion’s Head''Chapman’s Peak Drive''On top of Table Mountain''Hiking Lion’s Head''Cape Town from a Helicopter''A weekend spent in Muizenberg is a weekend well spent''The Iconic Table Mountain''Cheers to great sunsets''Exploring Cape Point''The beautiful Tintswalo Atlantic''Hout Bay from across the bay''Beautiful\xa0Days in the Cape''Wandering around Kalk Bay''Overlooking Cape Town''Table Mountain never ends''All photography shot with our''DJI Phantom 3 Advanced'',''Go Pro Hero 4 Silver'',''Canon 5D'', and''Fujifilm X-T10''. We use these products every day and highly recommend all of them. If you want to learn more we rank the''best travel cameras''.''Have you been to Cape Town? What was your most incredible experience?''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Cape Town''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cape Town:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in Cape Town:''City Bowl'',''Camps Bay'',''Green Point'', and''Sea Point''.''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in\xa0Cape Town:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Cape Town fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''The Seven Best Hotels In Cape Town You’ll Want to Stay At''If You’re Looking for a Cheap Place to Stay in Cape Town: Read This''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''Is Cape Town the Most Photogenic City in the World?''was last modified:''November 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''We’ve been hopping in and around''Cape Town now for the past two months''. We’ve spent our time gallivanting in and out of cafes, hiking various points, and eating a plethora of extremely delicious\xa0food. However, there is a side of it that you haven’t seen. The side that explains why we are in this gosh darn city so long. That side is the work, preparation, and planning of our entire African trip.''Between the adventure activities''and''the sushi lunches,''we have actually been hard at work in front of our computer and making countless runs to the Department of Transport trying to obtain a car to overland Africa in. So, when the opportunity arose for us to have a luxurious and relaxing weekend in Cape Town we jumped with joy!''Luxurious Accommodation in Cape Town at the Tintswalo Atlantic''We made our way to Hout Bay to start the weekend off right at the beautiful Tintswalo Atlantic. If luxury has a name in Cape Town,''then it’s definitely Tintswalo''. The Tintswalo Atlantic is known as Cape Town’s “hidden gem” as it is hidden within the Table Mountain Nature Reserve, hidden just below the famous Chapman’s Peak drive. As an outsider, you can barely see the property unless you are looking for it. We knew we were in for a secluded weekend when we parked our car at the drive and we have soon whisked away\xa0down to Tintswalo Atlantic. We made our descent to the shores and arrived in tranquility. With a\xa0greeting of\xa0fresh lemonade, smiles, and the sounds of the ocean waves we immediately forgot our current worries.''The Tinswalo Atlantic Experience''There are only 10 Island Suites and one Presidential Suite at the Tintswalo Atlantic and they are all named after islands around the world. We were shown to''Robben Island''– the only South African island represented at Tintswalo. For those that don’t know Robben Island is where Nelson Mandela spent 18 years of his life in prison. So fittingly enough the room was decked out in the classiest prison memorabilia and Mandela portraits we had ever seen.''Each island room here features a massive bathroom, fireplace, cloud-like bed, and of course every room faces the ocean. Every night and morning can be spent listening to the smooth sounds of the sea carrying you away. It’s safe to say that this is one of the most characteristic rooms we have ever stayed in.''Stepping into the giant bathroom that I mentioned feels like what Queen Elizabeth may get ready in each morning. The toilet is conveniently hidden down a long, but open corridor. There are his and her sinks complemented\xa0with dozens of seashells and deluxe soaps and toiletries. Then I saw it, the bathtub overlooking the sea. Next to the tub was all the salts, bubbles, and oils I could ever want to relax in. I don’t get to take baths often, so I knew this was going to be heaven.''We stay in a lot of rooms and it’s pretty hard to get excited about a hotel room, but believe me\xa0when I say it was easy with the Tintswalo Atlantic. I still haven’t gotten to the best part, and that is the patio overlooking the ocean, Hout Bay harbor, and Sentinel Peak.''This is where we spent the majority of our time. Relaxing, reading, and overlooking the stunning Cape. Every suite here has a balcony and is only steps from the ocean. The sun sets over\xa0Sentinel peak every day and the beauty is something I will always remember.''Each evening just as the sun is setting guests can make their way to the charming and characteristic lobby to mingle and have canapés The main building\xa0is also where dinner is served every night. After dinner,\xa0guests can relax next to a large fire while relaxing (or dozing off) to the sound of crackling firewood.''Room service is also available if guests don’t want to leave the comfort of their room for the night or have a romantic evening in. We got so caught up with the sunset one night that we couldn’t be torn away from Robben Island. The wonderful staff at Tintswalo graciously brought us some snacks to the room without us even asking, so that we could catch the views with no stresses.''We were incredibly impressed by the attentiveness, care, and mood of every single staff member at Tintswalo. Every member here cared about making each and every guest happy from morning to night. My favorite personal touch was the messages written in seashells we received every day from the housekeeping staff, had\xa0me\xa0smiling every time!''Besides hanging in the room, the Tintswalo has an amazing heated pool at the end of their boardwalk. We had two beautiful days to get tan by the pool and enjoy some of their\xa0signature island-themed cocktails served.''Now, we knew when we got to Tintswalo that we just wanted to hang out and lounge around the property the whole time in complete relaxation. We had been exploring''Cape Town for almost two months prior'', so we have checked off many of the bucket list items. The Tintswalo Atlantic was the perfect location for those wishing to explore the “Mother City” and her surroundings. If you are looking for a place to''celebrate your honeymoon''in Cape Town, you can’t go wrong with this place.''As Tintswalo is located at the foot of Chapman’s Peak, visitors are just a drive away from the top attractions around. The fishing town of Hout Bay is a close 5-10 minute drive away, as well as the most picturesque Chapman’s Peak Drive.''Moving on by Helicopter''After a wonderful couple days in paradise, our time at Tintswalo had come to an end. We didn’t want our\xa0luxurious weekend to end there though! So we decided to take a helicopter ride over Cape Town for the best views of the city! We’ve each have been wanting to ride in helicopter ever since we were''teased in the Seychelles''earlier this year. We finally got the opportunity on our luxury weekend with''NAC Helicopters.''Although we have been in the city a few months now we realized we still hadn’t seen Cape Town at her best. So we decided to take the Atlantico tour with NAC Helicopters which would take us around the main part of Cape Town and over to Hout Bay. Seeing the city from 2500 feet up was a breathtaking experience. I’m not so sure there is a better city in the world to see by air. The mountains, city bowl. and crystal clear waters all together\xa0doesn’t even look real\xa0and is something that should be seen in person by everyone traveling to Cape Town.''While taking these striking views in I couldn’t help, but think what the Dutch were thinking when they first arrived in this part of the world. Surely, without all the buildings that are currently there they had to know they were viewing one the most beautiful parts of the world? \xa0I guess I will never know what went down when the Dutch arrived, but I’m going to envision them having a braai on top of Table Mountain and declaring Cape Town paradise.''We were sad when our flight was over, but those babies take a lot of fuel! To ease our sadness the staff at NAC brought us two glasses of bubbly to enjoy. Ah, this weekend of luxury seemed to never end.''We strolled along the V & A Waterfront until it was dinner time. When you are seeking out a romantic meal for two in Cape Town the restaurant possibilities are endless. Being here two months we have tried at least one restaurant in just about every part of Cape Town. From Reuben’s to Gold Restaurant, to Salushi in Claremont we went all over in search of all the great cuisine. On this particular luxurious weekend we were''both craving sushi'', so we made way to Sevruga Restaurant on the waterfront and finished the weekend off with a mountain of creative and funky rolls.''Thank you to the Tintswalo Atlantic and NAC Helicopters for hosting us, as always all opinions are our own.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Cape Town''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cape Town:''Book your room at the Tintswalo Atlantic''here!''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Cape Town fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''Checking into the Tintswalo Atlantic in Cape Town''was last modified:''August 24th, 2017''by''Natasha''We just crossed the border from South Africa over to Namibia. I\xa0am over the moon with excitement for what this trip through the Namibian desert will bring. However, it is also a milestone for me because I have now set foot in and traveled through 50 countries! I know that numbers don’t matter and many travelers choose not to “count countries”, but I have always found that setting a goal pushes me to travel the world. Long ago, I told myself I would see the world. Having traveled\xa0to 50 countries I have now been in more than 25% of the world’s countries. I thought it would be fun for me to gather and share with you some of my highlights from the first 50 in alphabetical order.''I want to travel the world. So I do.''Albania''Oh boy! I could have spent a hell of a lot longer in Albania. The''Balkan country''is one of the least traveled\xa0in Europe and one of my favorites in Europe. Even\xa0though it\xa0is cheap – people are friendly and the scenary is beautiful.''Australia''Australia will forever hold a special place in my heart as it is where I started to travel the world. It was my first real experience abroad and was when I realized that I wanted to travel the world. This photo was taken when 20''study abroad students''from around the world rented 4×4’s and drove the east coast of Australia.''Austria''Cam and I just had to drive on the autobahn when we were in Germany''. We rented a Mercedes at the ridiculous price of \xa0€100 a day and drove into the Bavarian Alps and Austria.\xa0Only to spend the night in our car because we blew our budget on the rental.''Belgium''Am I upset that this is the only photo I took in Belgium? Well, I guess it shows where my priorities were that week. Yes, I spent most of my days in Brussels and Bruges drinking the wonderful Belgium beer.''Belize''I went to Belize when I was still in highschool on a short trip. I was pretty into black and white photography with my dad’s old film camera. We were wandering through the streets and I saw this man peeling vegetables. I asked him if I could take a photo to which he gave a nod. What resulted was my favorite film print I have ever taken!''Bosnia & Herzegovina''When people ask me''where they should go in Europe,''I always tell them to go to Bosnia. The country suffered a terrible civil war in my lifetime and still bares\xa0the battle scars. Traveling here is an eye opener to the Balkan war. But asides from\xa0that, it is cheap, beautiful, and has an''amazing capital city!''Bulgaria''I was going through a whole “no taking photos thing” during my time in Bulgaria. Yes, I’m a little upset about it looking back now. What can I do? Instead, I’ve decided to share a photo from the long and miserable train ride from Brasov, Romania to''Varna, Bulgaria''. The train took 16 hours and we got held up at the border because they didn’t trust our passports, resulting in a night sleeping on the benches of a run down Bulgarian train station.''Cambodia''Besides''getting food poisoning on Koh Rong Island'', Cam and I absolutely loved traveling through\xa0Cambodia. We had a fantastic day at the Angor Wat ruins – a site that needs much more time to be discovered.''Croatia''I’ve spent about two months of my life in Croatia alone, and still can’t wait to go back. This photo was taken in Rovinj, which is a city in the''beautiful region of Istria.''Cyprus''One of our''best days in Cyprus''was spent cliff jumping in''Cape Greko''. From this exact spot pictured you can take the 10-meter plunge right into the Mediterranean. It’s definitely a thrill.''Czech Republic''Prague is one of the most popular stops on any Eurotrip. So naturally, we couldn’t miss the city. We spent our days eating\xa0Trdelnik and checking out the city from the roofs! It was hot and we were active, good thing I had a good''Europe packing list.''Denmark''When we think of Copenhagen we think of our''memories in Christiania''. An independent free state right in the heart of the capital city. We came here for our food, entertainment, art, and culture. While walking the “streets” we had to stop and swing with this sweet Danish girl who let us laugh with her for what seemed like forever.''Ecuador''While still working in New York,''I had vacation time I had been saving for an international trip. I found a''cheap flight to Ecuador and couldn’t say no.''This photo is at the famous “Swing at the end of the World” in Banos, and yes, it’s the best place I have ever swung at.''Banos, Ecuador''France''When Cam went back home to finish school I stayed in Europe to continue traveling. He surprised me in Paris a month later so that''we could spend my 24th birthday together''. My goal was a photo with the Eiffel tower and I got a perfect one.''Germany''Between the parties, schnitzel, and beer I had to find some time to be a tourist and explore Berlin. This photo was taken in an underground tunnel in the city.''Greece''There are way too''many memories in Greece''to pick a top one while traveling the world. It\xa0is one of those countries I want to retire in, so every time I get the chance to travel to''Greece I jump at the opportunity.''This was taken''jumping off\xa0our yacht''for the week while sailing the Med.''Hong Kong''Hong Kong is an Asian foodies paradise. I spent most my days walking the streets\xa0eating\xa0and drinking everything in sight.''Hungary''Sadly, this is the best photo I have from our time in Budapest. The country was suffering from a massive heat wave when we were there and we spent all daylight hours searching for air con or a source of water!''Iceland''After I graduated college, I bought a one-way ticket into the cheapest country I could find. All I knew was that I wanted to travel the world. The ticket led me to''Iceland''. I was on an extreme budget the entire time, which led me to free hiking almost every day!''Indonesia''I was just casually searching cheap flights when studying abroad in Australia. I found a flash sale for a $500 roundtrip\xa0ticket to Bali and knew I had to go. I called my friend with hopes that she would want to go to. Next thing we knew we were white water''rafting the Ayung River in Bali.''Ireland''There was no way I was missing out on the Guinness Storehouse while in Ireland. Other things I made sure not to miss out on was the “PS I Love You Bar,” the Ring of Kerry, and an endless amount of Irish Whiskey. I can’t wait to get back to Ireland.''Italy''It’s very hard to pick a favorite country in Europe; however,''Italy may just take the cake''. This photo was taken in the gorgeous town of Sorrento…i.e. my future home. Even though I am blonde, I am 50% Italian. It’s all an excuse to\xa0learn some of those romantic Italian words before I move.''Japan''Snowboarding in the Japanese Alps was definitely a highlight of my time in Japan. If there is any country I am dying to go back to, it’s Japan. Not only for the sushi, but''also for the islands,''the people, and the cat cafes.''Latvia''I think we have to give Latvia another try. We left the country less than impressed because the people seemed so hostile towards us. However, in the center of the old town where this photo was taken, we found beautiful architecture and amazing cafes.''Lesotho''We spent the day driving\xa0through the mountains\xa0of''Lesotho to find\xa0Maletsunyane Falls''. Standing here not only makes you nervous, but also makes you realize just how small you are.''Lithuania''Just outside''Vilnius is the beautiful\xa0Trakai Island Castle''that dates back to the 14th century. I love exploring Europe’s old architecture, makes me realize just how young the United States really is.''Macedonia''Lake Ohrid in Macedonia''is the most beautiful body of water I have seen in Europe. We had the opportunity to travel here right after we spent a month in Serbia, and I fell in love. We had the chance to paraglide over the lake as well. This photo was taken right before I faceplanted.''Malaysia''While in Kuala Lumpur, I realized that I was in Malaysia for the famous''Thaipusam festival''. Venturing out to the Batu Caves I climbed the stairs with about a bazillion other\xa0people\xa0(not for the claustrophobic). All while listening to the mesmerizing chants from the festival participants. When I could finally find my hands again I decided it was time for some henna. And I found the perfect artist.''Montenegro''I ended up in Montenegro on my first trip around the world. I raved about it so much to Cam that we went back a few years later. This photo''was taken in Perast,''just outside of the touristy town of Kotor.''Morocco''The''Moroccan attitude towards foreigners''throws my head for a loop. The constant harassment and deceitfulness that many Moroccans\xa0show towards tourist caused us to cut our trip there almost 5 weeks short. However, we found peace and refuge while staying with a''Berber family in the High Atlas Mountains''.\xa0This photo was taken while having a traditional omelet breakfast with mint tea at the Berber market.''Mozambique''I’ve already written about how traveling''Mozambique was one of my best travel decisions yet''. But what fueled that decision was the day we spent swimming with whale sharks. For more than 15 minutes we were able to swim within an arms reach of this giant whale shark! And that was only the first one of the day.''Namibia''We just got here so I’m not sure of my absolute favorite memory yet. However I imagine it will involve Charlie, our badass 1989 LandCruiser that we just bought to get ourselves through Africa.''Namibia is like a dream country'', I can’t wait to explore!''The Netherlands''I spent most of days in Holland wandering through Amsterdam. However, one of the\xa0most awesome days was spent seeing the famous wind mills and wooden shoes at\xa0Zaanse Schans.''New Zealand''After some travel plans went haywire I ended up road tripping New Zealand by myself. For two weeks I rented a car and experienced the most beautiful drives. I stopped in Franz Josef to try a hand at ice climbing up\xa0a glacier. It was a lot harder than it looks.''Norway''Remember those people in the photo from Australia up top? Well I had the chance to meet some of them in Norway after a few years and we spent one of our days hiking the famous Preikestolen.''Poland''We got a little sick of city life in Warsaw and Krakow so we''made way for Zakopane, Poland''. Unfortunately, it rained almost the entire time we were there, but we still got the chance to do some hiking during the dry spells.''Romania''My best photo from Romania was taken inside “Dracula’s Castle” in Bran. Hey, we all know that Dracula didn’t have the best access to light!''Serbia''We decided to settle down for a month and''Serbia was the perfect country''to do that in.''It’s affordable'', has great nightlife, and the mountain views aren’t so bad either.''Seychelles''The Seychelles have been on my travel list forever. We ended up there after we found a''cheap flight there from Istanbul''and let me just say that they live up to all the hype. Sunshine, palm trees, and lush forests rural islands.''Slovakia''Not a whole lot of notable things going on Bratislava, but we decided to check out Slovakia’s capital city anyway. One day there was particularly memorable when we went to the museum and hung out with all the interesting Slovakian paintings.''We find gothic art to be the most boring in the world''…''Slovenia''We spent a few amazing weeks at the''Big Berry Lifestyle camp in the Slovenian countryside''. At one of the festivals, we won awards for being “far from home in Slovenia,” as I was from the United States and another friend was from Vietnam. So yes, I won an award for being American.''South Africa''There are almost''too many amazing experiences''in South Africa to count. One of my most memorable was the time I thought I was going to die hiking in the Drakensberg.''Hiking the Drakensberg Amphitheatr''e is an all day ordeal and involved free climbing a 65-meter chain ladder. Heart meet attack.''Spain''When I realized that we were in Valencia during Spain’s La Tomatina Tomato Festival, I knew we couldn’t miss partaking in the food fight. Would I do it again?''No.''Swaziland''Swaziland isn’t a country that is well worn''on the African travel route, so all the more reason for us to go! This is probably the closest I have ever gotten to a zebra before they walked away.''Sweden''Traveling Sweden is wonderful; however, it’s extremely expensive. As I’m not a millionaire I could only spend a few days in Stockholm before completely blowing my budget. The city is made up of a bunch of 14 islands, this is playing around on one of them.''Switzerland''I didn’t think I would be able to afford a stop in Interlaken but decided to stop anyway. I’m so glad I got to see the beautiful alps up close!''Thailand''We have so many''photos from Thailand''but I think this one is my favorite. The main way to get around is by a tuk-tuk, and they are everywhere. We laughed every time we got in one cause we found them so charming.''Turkey''It may have meant a 5:30am wake up call, but seeing\xa0the''hot air balloons rise over beautiful Cappadocia''is definitely one of those things you have to see in your lifetime.''United Arab Emirates''Missing the''Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi''was not an option. I decided to travel the country alone on a backpackers budget and the high costs made it a very hard place to stay on budget. I would like to go back one day when I have more money to spend.''United Kingdom''Instead of listing London on this list, I need to give a shout out to Belfast, Northern Ireland. Even though the city suffered from “The Troubles” not too long ago, it is wonderful to travel through. Oh yea, and the Titanic was built there which was my main reason for visiting. So this picture in front of the''Titanic Museum''will always remain as one of my favorites.''I’d like to thank a countless amount of strangers, selfie sticks, the self-timer option, and of course Cameron for always being there to take my photo in all these wonderful countries!''You May Also Like''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''was last modified:''November 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''Before our long vacation in South Africa, the nation was one I knew little about. I watched''the Color of Friendship''like any little girl addicted to The Disney Channel and was introduced to apartheid. I watched nature documentaries showcasing\xa0the beautiful visuals of the Cape and the effects of the two colliding ocean currents. And of course, I knew of the inspirational\xa0Nelson Mandela.''Asides from\xa0that, I could not\xa0even tell you where Table Mountain was. However, this nation intrigued Cam and I. We have come to love it so much that we\xa0extended our tourist visas to the full 90 days and have been calling Cape Town home for the last few months. Here are 20 South Africa travel tips to know before your own vacation there.''South Africa Travel Tips to Know Before Your Vacation''Not a BBQ, but a''Braai''Let’s start off simple and mention the food. South Africa has wonderful food throughout the region. We’ve tried most of the staples like traditional maize, tasted the minced ostrich (not a fan), and the intensely sweet koeksisters. However, the one thing that is popular with just about any South African is a braai.''Braai is Afrikaans for “grilled meat” and that’s exactly what a braai is. A bunch of grilled meat. “Having a braai,” just means someone is having a social gathering that is very\xa0similar to a BBQ. We’ve become quite custom to the typical South African braai now, our most memorable being inside a traditional boma near Kruger National Park. \xa0It’s also important to mention that South Africa is a very meaty country, but vegetarians can be catered for almost anywhere – especially''Cape Town.''It may just be the adventure capital of the world''I’m not just talking about the Cape''. Every corner of South Africa seems to have some adventure aspect to it. From hiking in the Drakensberg,''to free diving with sharks in the KZN'', to throwing yourself off the world’s highest bridge bungee you won’t be strapped to get an adrenaline rush on your vacation in South Africa.''Bloukrans Bridge Bungee''Hide Yo Kids, Hide Yo Wife''Just kidding''! But I am not kidding about the fact that South Africa has a bit of a security issue, unlike anywhere else I’ve ever been. We arrived in Johannesburg with little to no knowledge about traveling in Africa. We knew it would be more dangerous than many other parts of the world, but our first night in Joburg it became reality. No, nothing bad happened to us. However, stepping outside at night felt a little bit like being cast in the “''The Purge''” series.''Many homes have\xa0bars on the windows, high-security gates for\xa0the driveway, and electric fences. While, security guards patrol housing complexes, parking lots, banks, malls, and gas stations. \xa0This isn’t a “rough” area I am talking about, this is every single house – even the high dollar ones in the nice neighborhoods. It was honestly a little unsettling to see as a foreigner, but we quickly adapted to that way of life in SA. After\xa0the apartheid years, the violence became so bad that many white homeowners became frightened. The result is the security now in place throughout South Africa. This is all while\xa0South Africa combats\xa0one of the''highest crime rates in the world''.''Is South Africa safe?''Bringing me to my next point. Is South Africa safe to travel through?''Yes'', but with vigilance and common sense. Don’t flash any fancy items in the wrong places, don’t look like a complete tourist, and don’t walk around foreign areas at night. The last one took some time for us to adjust to because we walk everywhere, but in South Africa, we use an Uber or a car when we need to get around at night. This became apparent one night when I wanted sushi in downtown Cape Town, it was three\xa0blocks away.''Three\xa0Blocks.''I asked one of the hotel staff members if she recommended we walk to the sushi spot.''“Yes, but you will have to take an Uber,” she told us.''She’s just being paranoid''I thought, I mean this place is right around the corner.''So I went and tested another staffer. “Excuse me, but would you recommend we walk to this XXX restaurant right now?”''“No I would certainly recommend you take a cab ma’am,” he said. So there we were taking a 20 Rand ($1.20) Uber ride to a restaurant\xa0three\xa0blocks away. Better safe than sorry.''This is a tipping nation''Leading me to another point that will make going to South Africa much easier. Tips in South Africa. This is a tipping country and visitors should expect to tip for anything from\xa0a lunch out, to gas station attendants, to car watchers. And yes, car watchers. Almost anywhere we parked in SA was monitored by a “car guard” to ensure that your vehicle remains safely parked while you go and do your business. Expect to tip these guys anywhere between 2-10 Rand, and don’t try to stiff these guys. They will literally block your car with their body until you give them something. As for meals out 10% tips for waitstaff is the going rate.''Safaris Galore''We had a fantastic time not only going on one but''two''safaris while in South Africa. There are so many game reserves in''South Africa where visitors can see the Big 5.''If you’ve been dreaming of seeing a lion, elephant, or wild buffalo all your life then SA may just be your calling.''The Gateway to Southern Africa''Anyone who has looked at international flights going into Southern Africa may have noticed that the cheapest option may be to fly into Johannesburg or Cape Town. There are many international flights departing and arriving every day into these two airports. Whether your destination is''Namibia,''Botswana'',''Swaziland'', or''Mozambique''it may be worth checking the flight options into SA first.''Crossing the border into Swaziland''District 9 is real''American audiences know District 9 as that awesome Peter Jackson film about Aliens, but the film actually brings back many real memories for South Africans. In case you haven’t seen it, the movie is about an alien species being stranded\xa0in Johannesburg. The aliens, or “prawns,” are forced to in the ghettos and slums of Jo-Burg and as you can imagine, life there isn’t the greatest.''During apartheid era, this really did happen in multiples areas around the country (to real people – not aliens). The most notable instance was the forced removal of''District 6 residents in Cape Town''. These\xa060,000 people were forced to move to the Cape Flats after District 6 was declared a “whites only” area. Many people lost their jobs, possessions, businesses, and homes and were placed into an area with little to no social offerings. It lay waste to a once vibrant working community. Quite literally as the government demolished all but a handful of buildings.\xa0One of our\xa0Airbnb stays in\xa0Cape Town was one of the few\xa0complexes spared.\xa0It became pretty surreal and sad to see first hand every day as we walked out of the complex and were surrounded by empty fields in the heart of Cape Town.''The Capital(s)''South Africa has no legally defined capital city. But instead, there are three South African capitals. They are Pretoria (executive capital), Bloemfontein (judicial), and Cape Town (legislative).''The land of cultural diversity''You won’t have\xa0many\xa0issues of a South African not being able to speak English, but it may surprise you to know that English is actually only the 5th most common language spoken in SA. South Africa is the land of cultural diversity and there are 11 official languages. The most widely spoken language is Zulu, then Xhosa, followed by Afrikaans.''Rent a car here''For those wishing to''road trip around South Africa''like we did, I would recommend renting a\xa0car from a company in South Africa. Another good budget option is to''rent a campervan''as it serves as your accommodation too! Prices are much more affordable than in Namibia, Botswana, and Mozambique.''You will need to pay extra for taking the car across borders, but it’s certainly cheaper than multiple rental cars in different countries. We paid $100 total for the papers to take the car into Lesotho, Mozambique, and Swaziland. \xa0These $100 papers only ended up getting checked once when we crossed into Mozambique from Swaziland…ahh bureaucracy. If you do plan to drive yourself around South Africa, then drive carefully. South Africa has one of the highest rates of\xa0fatal car accidents\xa0in the world.''If you decide to take a campervan around South Africa (and you should!) we worked out a special discount for our readers.''Use this link and the code “TWP5” for 5% off your booking!''The car we bought in South Africa''The Rand''South Africa operates on the South African Rand, which is currently trading at''1 ZAR = 0.0732607 USD''. If Southern Africa had a reserve currency, it would be the Rand. The Rand trades in Swaziland and Lesotho at 1:1 and will also get you by easily in Mozambique and Namibia. You can also use the Rand occasionally in Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Zambia.''Mandela is everywhere''One of my favorite sites was seeing all the Mandela statues, paintings, photos, or street art installations in South Africa. Mandela, or''Madiba,''was a revolutionary of the apartheid era and quite possibly one of the greatest men of all time. Don’t know much about him yet? Just wait until you get to SA for that to change, or just watch one of the''many movies about his life.''Read More:''{''Check out Nelson Mandela’s famous book here!}''No vaccinations needed''You won’t need any vaccinations for traveling in South Africa unless you are coming from a country where Yellow Fever is prevalent. In that\xa0case, you will need to show proof that you have the vaccine. \xa0Also,''unless you’re paranoid''you shouldn’t need to take malaria medication here unless you plan on sleeping in\xa0a swamp.''We met a family while on safari in Kruger whose doctor convinced them to spend almost $1000 on malaria medicine. What the doctor failed to know was it was the dry winter season, with not a chance of mosquitos and the region was at low risk even when in season. We’d suggest taking anything a doctor from another country says with a serious grain of salt. Ahh…bureaucracy AND pharmaceuticals! However, I’m not a doctor so if you’re a bit of a cautious traveler I always say that you can’t put a price on peace of mind.''Get a power converter''Most plugs in South Africa are 15 amp 3-prong, with round plugs. I would''recommend purchasing one before you land,''especially if you land at night. We ended up not having the right adapter and had to go track one down once we realized at 10 p.m. the night we arrived. Remember what I told you about “The Purge-y” feeling above? If you do find yourself without an adaptor don’t worry. You CAN find one at any big supermarket for cheap.''Check out my ultimate Africa packing list here.''Drink the water!''We’ve been drinking the water out of the taps for three months and haven’t had a single issue anywhere (even in the bush). If you are in remote locations on game drives and such then there will probably be a water filtration system in place to make the water drinkable. Other than that the water in South Africa is safe to drink so please consider drinking the free tap water instead of buying plastic bottles. If you are truly worried on your vacation in South Africa we always travel with the''Lifestraw Go''and it filters out 99.99% of bacteria. If you want something else to drink besides water, then the''Stellenbosch region has some of the best and cheapest wine we have found in the world.''2018 Update: Due to the recent''Cape Town water crisis''please do your research before drinking tap water in Cape Town''Pleasure…''It’s all the Afrikaaners favorite word, and I really need to get used to saying it. “Pleasure” is the\xa0unofficial way to say “you’re welcome” in South Africa. It sounds so much nicer and fancier than “No problem,” or “Welcome” doesn’t it?''Shop smart''It may be handy to know the hierarchy of supermarkets while in South Africa. For the super fancy deluxe food (think Whole Foods,) then do your shopping at Woolworths. If you’re the upper middle-class\xa0kind of grocery shopper then do your shopping at Pick and Pay. The next step down (think Walmart) is a Checkers and, and if you want to go mega shopping (think Super Walmart,) then you definitely have to check out a Shoprite. Our favorite to shop at was Pick and Pay, we found the produce there to be great and the price was reasonable.''Banting''Have you heard of Banting? I sure hadn’t. This health/diet craze is taking South Africa by storm and you’re likely to see it advertised everywhere while traveling in SA. Banting is a high fat, medium protein, low carb way of eating and encourages weight loss. Many menus have a “Banting” \xa0menu so if you’re on a similar diet you will get by just fine eating out in South Africa.''If you’re from Africa, why are you white?''We found it was pretty easy to forget that we were still in Africa while in South Africa. There are countless sushi shops in many cities and towns, a hip coffee shop is always nearby, and about 10% of the population is white. It’s a pretty westernized country and has the 24th largest economy in the world. Then there were other things that brought us back to Africa. Things like crappy internet,\xa0bad drivers, unemployment, poverty, and enhanced security reminded us that.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0South Africa:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''Have you been to South Africa? What would you add to the list?''You May Also Like:''Buying a Car in South Africa and Being Undesirable''Six Fantastic Things to do in Stellenbosch, South Africa''How Ecotourism in South Africa is Implemented at Gondwana Game Reserve''30 Amazing Drone Photos of Southern Africa You Have to See''Is Cape Town the Most Photogenic City in the World?''Checking into the Tintswalo Atlantic in Cape Town''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''20 Travel Tips for a South Africa Vacation''was last modified:''April 20th, 2018''by''Natasha''I think it’s safe to say that the world is one beautiful places. Some destinations are so amazing that it’s hard to believe they are real. So I took to Instagram to find the most breathtaking destinations showcased by real people on Instagram. I use Instagram to fuel my motivation to travel, and sometimes we even hand pick certain destinations because of a photo on Instagram. From Finland to Antarctica, if these photos don’t make you pack your bags to jet set around the globe then I don’t know what will! So let’s work our way around the world, shall we?''Around the World with Instagram''North America''Alberta, Canada''When those northern night skies just turn into a perfect paint palate. 😍😍 Location: Saskatoon Lake, Grande Prairie. @travelalberta #explorealberta''A post shared by Brendan van Son (@brendanvanson) on''Sep 2, 2016 at 8:30am PDT''Vancouver, Canada'"Hi I'm Stephanie. I am American. I have two last names because I'm Latina too. I love culture and have traveled to 167 places. This is a luxury — my passport has never been an issue! I was even able to live abroad in 3 other countries. People around the world have welcomed me with kindness. Unfortunately, not everyone is so open-minded. —————————————————- NEW POST: 5 Reasons Hate Speech to One Group Hurts Everyone Direct Link in Bio / 📷 @paulodelvalle —————————————————-When we allow hate speech against Latinos, Muslims, women, the LGBT community — well any group, but I'm considering the current political climate — it divides us. It creates false portraits of real people. It insinuates bullying and violence. Hate speech sets the tone that prejudice is okay. It starts with words, but leads to domestic terrorism. Regardless of your views on economic, political and social policies, I hope that you'll join me in saying no to hate speech. We don't have to push each other down, when we can pull each other up. Please be respectful in your comments."'A post shared by Stephanie Be | TravelBreak (@stephbetravel) on''Mar 2, 2016 at 8:56pm PST''Utah, United States''Be fearless in the pursuit of what sets your soul on fire. 👏🏻 #newbeginnings''A post shared by Janna • Travel & Photography (@jannarizzy) on''Apr 15, 2016 at 6:03pm PDT''Brooklyn, New York''👋🏻❤️🏙''A post shared by Wendy | Nomadic Fare (@nomadicfare) on''May 29, 2016 at 7:30am PDT''Yucatan, Mexico''You asked if there were any flamingos at the pink lake… Meet Bob the Giant Flamingo! 📷: @djiglobal''A post shared by Anna Lysakowska Karsten ✈ (@anna.everywhere) on''Oct 12, 2016 at 10:00am PDT''South America''Patagonia, Chile''Cold mornings from my favorite place in the world. Please be kind to one another and please be kind to our planet''A post shared by andrew ling (@andrewling) on''Sep 20, 2016 at 8:52pm PDT''Salar de Uyun, Boliva''Probably the best photo you are going to see all day. Look at our shadows – they spell Uyuni (where the salt flats are in Bolivia). Want more pics? Article up on site now #travel #bolivia #saltflats''A post shared by Gemma I Two Scots Abroad (@twoscotsabroad) on''May 8, 2015 at 3:49pm PDT''Baños, Ecuador''Build bridges, not walls• • • • • • • • • • #vscocam #bestofvsco #vscogram  #vsco  #beautifuldestinations  #vscogood #globalcapture #reflectiongram  #universalmoments  #lovefl  #mashpics #igmasters #thecreatorclass #igers_orlando  #createexplore #huffpostgram #illestgrammers  #pailondeldiablo  #peoplescreatives  #ecuadortravel_ig  #hallazgosemanal #lentelocal #theweekoninstagram #jj_marvelousmountains #myaustrianmoment @jjcommunity''A post shared by David J Camba (@dcambaxp) on''Sep 10, 2016 at 5:24am PDT''Rio De Janeiro, Brazil''As the @rio2016 @olympics come to a close, I wanted to take a moment to salute the people of Brasil for their hospitality, and to all the athletes who competed. 🏅 . . . . . #BeautifulDestinations#rio2016#Olympics#RiodeJaneiro#IGersBrasil#VisitBrasil#achadosdasemana#brasilemphotos#discoversouthamerica#travelsouthamerica#moodygrams#artofvisuals#mobilemag#agameoftones#heatercentral#way2ill#fatalframes#welivetoexplore#createcommune#thecreatorclass#createexploretakeover#watchthisinstagood''A post shared by BSK (@bskphoto) on''Aug 21, 2016 at 1:47pm PDT''Machu Pichu, Peru''Cuando la sangre de tus venas retorne al mar, y el polvo en tus huesos vuelva al suelo, quizás recuerdes que esta tierra no te pertenece, sino que tú perteneces a esta tierra! #discoveryagus #agustrips #natgeo #peru #machupicchu #travelgram #travel #earth #mthrworld #travelblog #mexicasporelmundo #peoplewhodofunstuff''A post shared by AGUSTÍN GÔMEZ®       AGUSTRIPS (@agustrips) on''Jul 16, 2016 at 1:29pm PDT''Europe''Santorini, Greece''The village of Imerovigli, right next to Fira situated in the middle of the Island of Santorini, has one of the best views of the island. Since it is in the middle , you have the view of the Volcanic island right in front of you and you can see the southern curve of the island💙✨ 🔹Many thanks to @bestvacations and @bestdiscovery for the recent features 😊😊😊 and Lauterbrunnen post is already up on the site. Link in bio ✨''A post shared by Claudia  | Travel&Lifestyle (@zeebalife) on''Sep 15, 2016 at 1:49pm PDT''Cliffs of Moher, Ireland''Today we published a post (link in bio!) highlighting some of the best things that happened during our last trip. We were so blessed to be able to do 33 shoots in 3 months. It was tiring at times but so worth it! We want to thank each and every one of you for your support on this journey! – – – #cliffsofmoher #ireland #irish #ireland_gram #ig_ireland #worldcaptures #wanderlust #justgoshoot #passionpassport #main_vision #profile_vision #instagram #instagood #watchthisinstagood #travel #travelblog #travelblogger #europe #ftwotw #ftmedd #rsa_mystery #tlpicks #instatravel #500px #travelphotography #world_shotz #2instagoodportraitlove''A post shared by Victoria and Terrence (@followmeaway) on''Jun 19, 2016 at 11:53am PDT''Hierapolis Pamukkale, Turkey''Explored the ancient ruins of Hierapolis today, but I think we may have missed the show.  #adventure #theworldpursuit #travelturkey #grammasters3''A post shared by Natasha & Cam in Portugal 🇵🇹 (@theworldpursuit) on''Nov 30, 2015 at 3:01pm PST''Vatnajokull Glacier, Iceland''One of the countries I want to revisit the most is #Iceland. Why? Just look at these crystal caves! Which place would you like to revisit? 😊 #latergram #memories''A post shared by Matt • Expert Vagabond (@expertvagabond) on''Aug 25, 2016 at 3:19am PDT''Africa''Chefchauoen, Morocco''Hello Chefchaouen!! 💙💙 #lpfanphoto''A post shared by Natasha & Cam in Portugal 🇵🇹 (@theworldpursuit) on''Feb 11, 2016 at 2:14pm PST''Sossusvlei, Namibia''Wait for it…''A post shared by Natasha & Cam in Portugal 🇵🇹 (@theworldpursuit) on''Nov 14, 2016 at 12:20pm PST''Maletsunyane falls, Lesotho'"We can't imagine spending decades on this planet and not seeing its beautiful creations. Travel as much as you can, as far as you can, and as long as you can. Get out there! 🌍"'A post shared by Natasha & Cam in Portugal 🇵🇹 (@theworldpursuit) on''Aug 20, 2016 at 10:16am PDT''Serengeti, Tanzania''Sunset in the Serengeti earlier this year. I love the acacia trees. The giraffes do too… #takeyourkidseverywhere #africa #serengeti #afarambassador''A post shared by Eric Stoen | Family Travel (@travelbabbo) on''Sep 24, 2016 at 8:12pm PDT''Western Cape, South Africa''I imagine heaven to look a little something like this 😇''A post shared by Natasha & Cam in Portugal 🇵🇹 (@theworldpursuit) on''Sep 20, 2016 at 3:05pm PDT''The Middle East''Abu Dhabi, UAE'"Think I'll slip on down to the #Oasis 🌴🏜 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• #ivegotfriends #inlowplaces #dubai #mydubai #wanderlust"'A post shared by Kiki • The Blonde Abroad (@theblondeabroad) on''Jul 7, 2016 at 11:01pm PDT''Muscat, Oman''Structure #hdr_photogram #hdr_oftheworld #igersmuscat #WWIM13 #WWIM13Muscat #sktoman #instagram #eye_for_earth #hdr_pics #fx_hdr #rebels_hdr #architecture #omanobserver #BeAnObserver #timesofoman #HiWeeklyOman #LifeOnEarthWWIM13 #beautyhasanaddress''A post shared by Guru Acharya (@devilzown1987) on''Apr 24, 2016 at 4:38am PDT''Petra, Jordan''No importa lo que te cuenten, nada te prepara para este espectáculo. Petra es IMPRESIONANTE!  #Jordania #shareyourjordan #jordan #petra #axmjordania''A post shared by Alan por el Mundo (@alanxelmundo) on''Oct 7, 2016 at 5:52am PDT''Asia''Jaipur, India''Roaming around the lovely city of Jaipur was fantastic and so was my stay at @thelalitgroup, a lovely 5* hotel chain with a personal touch! Thank you 🙏🏻 #yesTC #bbctravel #bestintravel #traveldeeper #globetrotter #secretplaces #TLPicks #sharetravelpics #worldplaces #officialtravelpage #travelstoke  #travelingourplanet #snapchat #guardiantravelsnaps #forbestravelguide #adventurevisuals #travellover #letsgetlost#finditliveit#liveauthentic#livingthegoodlife#letsgoeverywhere#livethegoodlife#lifestyle#luxurylifestyle#loucosporviagem#letstraveltoday#crewlife''A post shared by Travel And Adventure Blogger 🌍 (@traveltomtom) on''Jul 25, 2016 at 8:21am PDT''Samarkand, Uzbekistan''"We travel not for trafficking alone, by hotter winds our fiery hearts are fanned. For lust of knowing what should not be known, we take the Golden Road to Samarkand…" – James Elroy Flecker, 1913 ❤️🐪''A post shared by Bunch Of Backpackers – Manouk (@manoukbob) on''Jul 3, 2016 at 6:29am PDT''Singapore'"Definitely think I found my new happy place. 😻 Singapore is like every type of amusement park mixed into one little island! You can see my (very) full day of the top sites to see on my Snapchat or IG stories, and I'll be writing up all the blog posts on my flight to JAPAN in a few hours! 🙋🏼🌎📷💖. . #Singapore #happyplace #gardensbythebay #travelblogger #travelblog #mylifesamovie #mylifesatravelmovie #gopro #hero5 #goprogirl"'A post shared by Alyssa Ramos (@mylifesatravelmovie) on''Oct 4, 2016 at 5:51am PDT''Kyoto, Japan''#tbt to exploring the Fushimi Inari-taisha shrine in Kyoto. This was taken two years ago as I was traveling the country during the off season. Ended up being so grateful to have the place all to myself. #theworldpursuit #timeoutsociety ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Check out the latest blog post about traveling during the off season. Link in bio!''A post shared by Natasha & Cam in Portugal 🇵🇹 (@theworldpursuit) on''Dec 8, 2015 at 3:58pm PST''Bohol, Philippines'"There's another destination in the Philippines that you shouldn't forget: Bohol! In this photo, you will see one of its unique landmarks: the Chocolate Hills. Read about my experience here: bit.ly/boholphilippines 🇵🇭 #AileenInThePhilippines"'A post shared by Aileen Adalid (@i_am_aileen) on''Feb 5, 2016 at 3:52pm PST''Sabah, Malaysia'"Maliau Basin, the Lost World of Sabah! A dream come true for any real hardcore trekker, adventure, explorer. Isolated, remote and barely known. Habitat of leopards and sunbears. Heath forest to sustain 7 species of Nepenthes and endless list of unusual and genius plants and fungus that will perplex your understand of the natural world. I just completed… Conquered… Battled my body for 5 days of steep jungle treks and humidity. Can't wait to share more but first, I need to recharge my batteries and get my legs back. #pulautiga or #tipofborneo ??? @borneoecotours #sabahtourism #maliaubasin #malaysia #artofvisuals""A post shared by Karina's Extraordinary Life (@karinas_extraordinary_life) on"'Aug 25, 2016 at 2:57am PDT''Oceania''Northern Territory, Australia'"'Dawn of time' Uluru NT."'A post shared by Photographer – NZ south Island (@william_patino) on''Sep 14, 2016 at 3:57am PDT''New South Wales, Australia''Early morning breakfast and surf checks ✅ @gopro #GoPro  @goproanz #GoProANZ  @australia #Australia  #Kangaroo #roo  #BCUpeeps @bcupeeps  @solitaryislandssurfschool @take3forthesea #take3forthesea''A post shared by Harley Ingleby (@harleyingleby) on''Aug 30, 2016 at 3:52pm PDT''Queenstown, New Zealand''After two years of witnessing some pretty spectacular views around New Zealand, I think this lookout over Wanaka still takes the cake. 🏔  Also- so excited to fit a sneaky trip down to @discoverqueenstown & @lakewanakanz tomorrow! Had to go see the snow before I leave NZ for good 😫''A post shared by Nicola Easterby 🇦🇺✈️ (@polkadotpassport) on''Jul 16, 2016 at 4:12pm PDT''Glenorchy, New Zealand''…and as the stars come out tonight, I still think of you…🎶✨ ֹ ֹ''A post shared by Larissa Dening ♡ Brisbane AUS (@larissadening) on''Sep 25, 2016 at 1:31am PDT''Tasmania, Australia'"Wow, what an incredible night I had last night thanks to @tbirchley and @jones_linzie for suggesting we go find some Bioluminescence that's occurring around Hobart at the moment. This was taken at Lauderdale around 10pm. Thanks to Linzie for being a great and patient model during the 30 second exposure. ________________________ 📷  Sony A7R Canon lenses  Manfrotto  Lowepro ________________________ All images are available for print. www.simonbeedle.com Get in touch: questions / campaigns simonbeedle@outlook.com ________________________ #hobartandbeyond #lauderdale #bioluminescence #nightphotography #longexposure #roadtrip #beautifuldestinations #ig_australia #wonderful_places #natgeotravel #lonelyplanet #travelandlife #big_shotz #hubs_united #RoamThePlanet  #inspiredtravels #OurPlanetDaily #amazing_pictures #NakedPlanet #amazing_captures #Dream_image #tasmania #discovertasmania #howiroam"'A post shared by ✖️ Simon Beedle Photography ✖️ (@simonbeedlephotography) on''Sep 23, 2016 at 12:26am PDT''Antarctica''A colony of king penguins on South Georgia Island.''A post shared by Gary Arndt (@everythingeverywhere) on''Mar 31, 2016 at 8:28am PDT''One of my favorite Seabourn Quest Antarctica experiences was an early evening cruise through the Neumayer channel. I have so many photos to share with you! #seabourncruise #Antarctica''A post shared by Donna Hull (@donnalhull) on''Jan 12, 2016 at 5:26pm PST''Iceberg spotting in Antarctica aboard the Polar Pioneer with @Aurora_Expeditions was definitely one of the highlights of my year so far! #Antarctica #Iceberg''A post shared by Paul Pichugin (@paulmp) on''Oct 1, 2016 at 4:09am PDT'"One of the coolest experiences in Antarctica was when our ship sailed into a frozen fjord and we were able to walk right off. The kids made snowmen, played with Frisbees and beach balls, and otherwise had a great time. The ship's crew even set up a table with hot chocolate for kids and Baileys for adults. Seriously, such a fun place to take kids!  And I'm loving the #familytravel community on Instagram right now! I've been tagged on at least two dozen comments as you're finding new inspirational traveling family accounts through my blog post. Hoping to meet up with others on future travels! Maybe in Antarctica??? 🙂 #takeyourkidseverywhere #ngexpeditions #traveldeeper #afarambassador #gnomads"'A post shared by Eric Stoen | Family Travel (@travelbabbo) on''Oct 12, 2016 at 9:26am PDT''If you’re not following these accounts, then please show them some love! I would also love if you''followed us''and interacted on our account. We’ll be taking Africa by storm for the next six month so lots of unique photos to come. Hashtag #theworldpursuit to show us around the world!''You May Also Like:''Around the World with Instagram: Destinations to Make You Pack Your Bags''was last modified:''November 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''T''here are so many adventures in Cape Town, it’s hard to count. Visitors can choose from every standard adventure sport, such as kite boarding, surfing, mountain biking, hiking, and skydiving. However, for those looking for something different here’s an awesome list that will be sure to give you some thrills. These are all experiences that are unique to Cape Town and you can only find in a few other places around the world. \xa0Here’s a round up of our personal favorite while in the Western Cape.''Five Adventures in Cape Town''Shark Cage Dive''Ever since the movie Jaws the fear of the Great White Shark has been palpable. It is after all the shark responsible for the highest number of recorded shark caused human fatalities. Near the southernmost point of Africa is “Shark Alley,” a strait between an island and beach home to thousands of Cape fur seals. Here, the Great Whites come\xa0for a feeding frenzy. In fact, you’ve probably seen it before in a nature documentary where the sharks are jumping out of the water with a seal in their teeth. It is here that you can have one the most''surreal adventures''in the world and that’s why it is our one of our top adventures to have in Cape Town. Jump in the waters with these giants of the ocean and come face to face! \xa0We spent some time doing our research about the best provider given that it can be considered a controversial practice and found that''Marine Dynamics''is the company to go with,''Our tour kept us well fed, warm, had a professional staff, a marine biologist on board, and they made sure to put the client first. They’ve even won several responsible tourism awards – a''big deal to us''– and are very very very active in the conservation of these incredible animals. They are truly majestic in the water and if you don’t have respect for them before you go then you will certainly walk away changed. The sharks themselves are massive – close to 5m long – and their sheer size is awe-inspiring. However, most shocking of all is how calm things seem in the water as they swim by. While sitting in the cold ocean water surrounded by a metal cage you can hear the famous soundtrack to jaws playing in your head.''Bungee Jump''This adventure is not in Cape Town, and in fact, it’s pretty far. However, at just''six hours drive outside of Cape Town''sitting on the famous Garden Route we’re still adding it to the list. The drive itself is stunning and an absolute''must when visiting South Africa''. This is also one of the most thrilling things you can do in Africa. The experience of bungee jumping will give even the bravest an adrenalin rush. No “manning” up here – the jump is high.''Face Adrenalin has been throwing people off of the Bloukrans bridge since 1997 and has every intention of remaining fatality free after 25 years as a bungee company. You’re in safe and capable hands,''unlike here''. The bridge is 216 meters high, or 708ft, making it the highest bungee bridge in the world and at one point it held the world record for the highest commercial bungee in the world. If doing a bungee jump has been your dream there is no better place to do it than with Face Adrenalin off of this bridge.''Be forewarned! The moment you\xa0jump off the bridge and see an open 216m below you, the thought “I’m going to die” will cross your mind. It is terrifying,\xa0but it is followed by an overwhelming rush of adrenalin. Just live by their motto when you’re standing on the edge, “fear is temporary, regret is permanent.” I’m scared of heights, but if given the opportunity 100% jump again.''See a waterfall like never before''If you haven’t heard of canyoneering, it is a must for any outdoor sports addict. The basic premise is to find a canyon full of water and\xa0follow the flow. We went with''Frixion Adventures''who operate around the Cape Town area. Brett, the owner has been doing this for over two decades. It’s seriously impressive how fast he can move down a waterfall, which you’ll be doing a lot of.''Canyoneering involves cliff jumps, hiking, swimming, and lots of abseiling. Dropping off the face of a waterfall with a rope is an experience we’re not likely to forget anytime soon. When you lean back in your harness and jump off a 65m tall waterfall you won’t forget either. I\xa0can’t think of a better way to experience a waterfall. Descending one with water pounding into your chest and your feet on the rock wall. It rocks, literally!''The canyons around Cape Town itself make for a beautiful day of hiking. On a personalized tour, everyone will get a light breakfast, lunch, and plenty of hot soup to warm back up from the chilly river water.''Abseil Table Mountain''Standing on top of Table Mountain and looking down on Cape Town is an experience every visitor should have. The cable car up to the top is the most visited tourist attraction in Africa, after all. However, for those who like an adventure standing near the edge and looking down on the city isn’t going to cut it. Abseil Africa will happily “throw” tourists off of Table Mountain from 1000m up.''Abseiling off of Table Mountain offers some of the best views possible. The abseil is about five to ten minutes of dizzying heights as you look down on the Atlantic Ocean and Camps Bay. It’s a much different experience than canyoneering seeing as it is a dry rope at a much higher altitude for a shorter amount of time. We loved the experience even if we were scared out of our minds leaning back with no hands.''Swim with the Seals''Yea, that’s right in Cape Town you can swim with the real-life plush stuffed animals from your childhood with Cape Town Bucket List. Except, these seals\xa0are a heck of a lot bigger, smell pretty bad, and can out swim a boat. I’m finding a new passion and that is''spending time in the water''. Any marine fan and even divers will love the experience of snorkeling with the seals and having a great adventure in Cape Town. Hout Bay has long offered tourists the chance to take a big boat out to a small island just outside the harbor where 15,000 Cape Fur Seals reside. However, the brave can now jump into the chilly waters of the Atlantic and go swimming with the furry animals!''The water is bone chilling cold, especially in Spring when we went, but with thick wetsuits, you’ll survive. The seals are very curious and playful. They recognize something new is in the water and will stop by to check you out. The highlight for us was when the young pups brushed against us trying to play. \xa0The first one to dart at you is alarming, but after some time it becomes great fun. Just check out the video below:''Where to stay''We’ve given a full tour of Cape Town and have a number of great places we can''recommend staying from luxury''to''budget''. It all really comes down to what you’re looking for. With a full day you need\xa0accessibility, high-speed internet, a quality night’s rest, and some good food. After\xa0a long day of adventure sports, we aren’t always in the mood for the party atmosphere of a hostel or the work involved in a self-catering apartment.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Cape Town''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Cape Town:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home''in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance.\xa0 World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Cape Town fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''We’re really happy to report that we had a stellar experience with all of these tour providers. Yes, all of the adventure activities are a tad bit dangerous, if handled improperly. However, at no point did we ever feel we were in danger with anyone. All of the providers we recommend were outstanding and professional. Please remember that all of these activities, excluding bungee jumping, are weather dependent.''You May Also Like:''The 10 Best Hiking Backpacks to Conquer Mountains in 2018''23 Portraits of Happiness From Around Africa''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''Six Must See Places In South Africa''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''Five Adventures in Cape Town You Need to Try''was last modified:''January 4th, 2018''by''Natasha''Safari clothes are\xa0a\xa0serious affair in Africa. Yes, it is a bit “old fashioned,”\xa0but fashions like the proper safari outfit never\xa0die. Unlike, certain parts of the world you won’t be laughed if you show up in all khaki on a''game reserve''. In fact, there is even a South African brand\xa0dedicated to safari fashion offering only khaki garments.''While, we are not a seasoned guides we have spent six months of our lives in the bush. In those six months we have been on safari in''South Africa'',''Namibia'',''Botswana'',''Zimbabwe'',''Zambia'',''Malawi'',''Tanzania'',''Uganda'', and''Kenya''.''We have been on safari in all of major parks of Southern and East Africa.\xa0It’s a ridiculous amount of time on safari and we’ve even made a''list of all of our favorite spots to go on a safari''.''It’s unlikely the safari clothes you wear will have to hold up to a year\xa0of non-stop safari. However, we\xa0have a serious addiction to find and test the best garments on the market. We have put all that safari knowledge to the test. In this article we can dispel some of the myths about what to wear on safari and back it up with solid packing advice. Let’s get down to some expert advice on what to wear in Africa and where to buy safari clothes.''What we wore in the Masai Mara''Table Of Contents''What to Clothes To Pack For A Safari?''Packing List For Southern Africa''Packing List For East Africa''The Key Elements to Great Safari Clothes''The Best Safari Clothes''A Great Safari Shirt''The Perfect\xa0Safari Bottoms''Safari Accessories''Final Tips of What To Wear''What clothes to pack for a safari?''You don’t need an endless collection of safari clothes in''your luggage''. We’re big fans of versatility and minimalism.\xa0 People tend to overpack for their safari which becomes a burden. On safari you are traveling to the wilds of the African bush a full wardrobe of clothes is unnecessary. We break down the clothes that help you look the part, but any safari expert will agree there is no set dress code or safari outfit.''Where are you going on safari?''The first decision in packing for a\xa0safari is''where you’re headed on safari''.\xa0Africa has a very wide range of landscapes, vegetations, and climates. You should pack for where in Africa you’re headed, that’s pretty straight forward.''What’s the forecast?''Weather plays a large role in what you wear. Most African climates do not have your standard four season climate. Here it is mostly dry and wet season, especially in Eastern Africa. With dry season can come heat in East Africa; however, dry season in Southern Africa means that it’s going to be cool in the evenings and mornings. Then it flips. Rainy season in the East Africa brings cooler weather patterns and perpetuates a constant spring-like weather in Tanzania and Kenya. While, rainy season in South Africa can coincide with its hottest months.''The basic gist is if it’s dry season we suggest khaki, brown, and tan. If it’s rainy season time to bust out the browns and greens. Just please no leopard print, okay maybe a little.''Southern Africa''In Southern Africa, the climate varies across the region. Summers can be blisteringly hot while winters are freezing in the back of a game vehicle. Many visitors show up in the winter thinking they’re going to be in the hot bush only to find zero degree weather in an open vehicle. Yikes!''The key to a comfortable safari outfit are layers. We often pack and wear layers to adjust to the wide range of temperatures you can experience on a typical day. While the morning can be freezing in arid locations like Botswana by midday it can be hot, layers will save you.''Packing list for Southern Africa''s5 x''Athletic socks''2 x''Wool socks''2 x''Pairs of pants''3 x''Quick-dry shirts''1 x''Short sleeve shirt''1 x''Jacket''Plenty of undergarments''(Men)''(Women)''1 x''Warm hat''2 x''Long sleeve shirt''1 x''Shorts''1 x Bathing suit''Men’s''Women’s''1 x''Sandals''1 x''Safari Boots''1 x''Safari Hat''Central & East Africa''Here the weather is more temperate year round. It is often referred to as the “never ending spring.” However, morning game drives can still be chilly so convertible pants and a light jacket are great options. Always come prepared for rain given the time of year. We’ve been caught in a number of the famous thunderstorms of Africa, including a flash flood in Tanzania!''Packing list for Central and East Africa''2 x''Compression socks''Plenty of undergarments''(Men)''(Women)''2 x''Short sleeve shirts''4 x''Quick-dry shirts''1 x''Pairs of pants''1 x''Rain jacket''2 x''Shorts''1 x''Sun hat''5\xa0x''Athletic socks''1 x Bathing suit''Men’s''Women’s''1 x''Safari Boots''1 x''Safari Hat''The Key Elements of Good Safari\xa0Garments''There are a couple key elements to look at with each piece of safari clothing. While you may picture yourself as an adventure seeker, you should keep in mind that you are a guest and your safari guide will handle the nitty gritty.''Unless, you’re driving across Africa like us,''you’ll be safe. The clothes you pack should be for comfort not some rugged adventure. If it doesn’t feel good to wear you may as well leave it at home.''Versatility'': You’ll want to pack light. The days are often busy so multiple wardrobe changes aren’t really in the mix. Solid clothes that are casual, yet stylish enough to wear to dinner in a lodge.''Durability'': This one is key. Africa can be hard on clothes even on a short trip. Climbing in and out of a safari vehicle can easily rip a weak pair of pants or shorts. Look for clothes that stretch a little.''Material'': With a safari, you’ve come to see nature and that’s just what you will do. So, your clothing needs to be well suited to the environments of Africa.''Practicality'': Things like having pockets can make or break good safari wear. Where else are you going to stash things like lip balm, sunscreen, or even a pair of binoculars?''Safari Clothes Are Designed To Blend''Wear beige, green, and brown colored clothes. They are the staple colors of safari wear because they blend into the environment. This provides a better game viewing experience. Wearing bright colors such as red is said to scare off animals, and make you stand out. This may or may not be true, only the animal gods know for sure.''The Maasai in Kenya and Tanzania have been wearing red for centuries!''That being said neutral colors do a great job at hiding dirt and dust which there will be plenty of on a drive or walk through the bush. White clothes aren’t going to stay white very long and dark colors are believed to attract tsetse flies. Trust us you do not want to become familiar with tsetse flies!''For example, when gorilla trekking''it advised to wear long pants and greens. When on foot it is always advised to wear colors that blend well into the environment and a''good pair of safari boots''.''Safari Clothes''Classic safari style in Mana Pools''Great Safari Shirt''The perfect safari shirt will make all the difference''in being comfortable throughout the day. A synthetic shirt will give the most practicality, while cotton shirts tend to have a more timeless look. The cotton can also provide a nice base for warmth on a cold morning or cool evening.''Synthetic has its own advantages mostly related to quick drying, stain resistance, and keeping cool. Below is a collection of some the best safari clothes we’ve found on the market.''In the end, this is meant to be used as a guide about what to look for; what is the best fit for you may be something not included on this list. We’d also suggest you''check out our post on safari shirts''.''Men’s Safari Clothing: Shirts''Patagonia Farrier’s Shirt''I just added this new shirt to my safari wardrobe and love it! I love''Patagonia clothing''so it shouldn’t be too much of a surprise. They make some of our favorite products and they are a large portion of what we wear. To top it off all of my clothes are still in great condition with plenty of wear.''The safari shirt has a great material blend of hemp and recycled polyester. It feels soft to the touch, but the hemp gives a weight to the fabric that will stand the test of time and the bush. The weight is perfect for spring conditions, but will be a tad hot for summer in Southern Africa.''[''Check the prices here!'']''Columbia Men’s Silver Ridge Long Sleeve Shirt''This Columbia long sleeve shirt looks great and is well constructed. Made entirely from a nice blend of synthetic materials it allows for quick drying and ventilation in the hot sun. A long sleeve shirt like this allows for greater comfort moving from chilly mornings into hot days.''{''Check the prices here!''}''Mountain Hardwear Canyon Shirt''This is a fantastic safari shirt for hot weather.\xa0This shirt was one of my favorite safari shirts for hot weather with sun protection. I wanted a shirt that offers protection from the African sun and while keeping me cool in the heat. This shirt knocked it out of the park. It has nice cut, feel, and love the design of the collar which has a hidden extension to cover your neck when flipped up.''[''Check the prices here!]''Dickies Men’s Short Sleeve Work Shirt''Look I’m not going to lie and say Dickies are known for style because they aren’t. They are a working man’s shirt. The shirts are meant to stand up wear and tear, yet look presentable. Which, is exactly what you want out of a good shirt on safari. They’re hard to stain come in all manner of colors and sizes. Furthermore with short sleeves, pockets, and synthetic materials this shirt is \xa0a winner.''{''Check prices here!''}''Hanes Sports Men’s Cool DRI Men’s Performance Tee''You don’t always need some safari get up to enjoy your time and be comfortable. That’s where some great comfortable t-shirts come in handy. I’m a big believer in Hanes and always opt for solid colors over graphic tees. I also love a simple classic cotton T-shirt.''{''Check the prices here!''}''Unisex Safari Clothing: Shirts''Columbia Sportswear Bahama II Long Sleeve Shirt''This shirt pretty much checks off every box when it comes to good safari wear. Design built\xa0for anglers, but that makes it a perfect fit for the African Bush. The shirt offers UV protection, it’s lightweight, quick drying, it has a vented back, and front pockets.''[Men’s Safari Shirt]''–''[Women’s Safari Shirt]''Women’s Safari Clothing: Tops''Columbia Women’s Tamiami II Long Sleeve-Shirt''It’s very similar to the Bahama except this one is better fitted and doesn’t include a front breast pocket. The shirt looks a lot better than the Bahama too. However, it’s made out of the same material and has vents in the back as well.''[Check the Prices here!]''Fair Indigo Pocket V-neck Fair Trade Organic''Not every item in your pack has to be outdoor wear. Simple clothes like a classic T-shirt or V-neck are great staples to bring in your pack. {''Check the prices here!''}''Superdry Women’s Super Playsuit Khaki''Stylish, comfortable, and a classic look. This is the perfect womens safari clothing although it might not be the most sturdy piece of clothing, but it’s not like you’re hiking through the bush on most safaris. It’s all about stylish safari clothes here.''{''Check the prices here!''}''LE3NO Women’s Lightweight \xa0Sleeveless Military Anorak Vest''Functional, lightweight, and comfortable with a whole bunch of pockets. Easy Addition to the list of best safari clothes.''{''Check the prices here''!}''Safari Pants And Bottoms''Pants should be bought with activity in mind. If you’ll be doing bush walks, light pants will be much more practical than a pair of shorts. Bottoms should also have a little give, new outdoor gear has synthetic materials built into to provide strength and give. So, when you’re hopping into the back of a safari vehicle your pants don’t rip.''Shorts also should not be feared. Most safaris are very easy going affairs riding around in the back of the vehicle so the protection of long pants is unnecessary. Whatever you pack\xa0you should bear in mind the location, time of year, and activity level.''Mens Safari Clothing: Pants''5.11 Tactical Men’s TacLite Pro Pant''5.11 specializes in tactical gear and makes some seriously great products. These pair of pants are comfortable, practical, tough, and look great. It ticks off every box for what I’m seeking in safari clothes.''{''Check the prices here!''}''Columbia Men’s Silver Ridge Convertible Pants''Whatever these pants lack in style they make up for in practicality. Made from a synthetic material they offer UV protection, convertible, and vented for comfort.''{''Check the prices here''!}''TRU-SPEC Men’s 24/7 Polyester Cotton Rip Stop''A pair of shorts to keep men cool and fight against stains. Yes, they might be tactical clothing, but that’s okay.''{''Check the prices here!''}''Patagonia Men’s Field Hacking Pants''These pants were built for the modern day adventurer so they’re more than ready for an African safari. The pants are great for those going on a gorilla trek of doing some bush walks. They come with a slew of well thought out features that are sure to last a lifetime. Easily the best pants on this list, but also the most expensive.''[''Check the prices here'']''Bathing Suit''It really all depends on where you’re going, but Africa has some of the best beaches in the world. Not to mention some stunning hotels, rivers, lakes, lodges, and waterfalls all present the ability to go for a dip.''One of the biggest travel regrets is missing out on something. We almost always carry a spare bathing suit even on a safari. There are also plenty of great beach lodges that make for a wonderful and relaxing end to be a busy safari. You can read about the''best hotels in Zanzibar''or''Diani Beach''!''{''Find a bathing suit!''}''Womens Safari Clothing: Bottoms''prAna Women’s Convertible Pants''The pants are constructed from a sturdy material that offers stretch, providing solid comfort. It’s the pair of pants Tasha went with and she loves them. With detachable legs, these pants also turn into shorts. These pants are a great option. And they don’t look too bad either!''{''Check prices here!''}''Royal Robbins Women’s Discovery Pencil Pant''The pants are nylon and are available\xa0in the right colors. They have a mesh waistband, a snap button, and deep pockets. This makes them the perfect pants to wear on a safari. The nylon blends keep you cool while protecting your skin from the elements and bugs common on a safari. The fit of these pants allows them to avoid that ugly baggy hiking pant look.''{''Check the prices here!''}''Columbia Women’s Saturday Trail Shorts''You can’t only wear pants on a safari unlike you’re looking to have a heat stroke in certain environments. A good pair of outdoor shorts with some stretch and quick dry qualities will do. These pants are nylon and have mesh pockets.''{''Check the prices here!''}''Women’s Safari Dresses''REI Co-op Aoraki Travel Dress''This lightweight and stylish safari dress is a great choice. The REI Co-op Aoraki travel dress will keep you cool in the sun with lightweight fast drying fabric. It’s also great as it will dry overnight after a quick wash along the in your wash basin. The outer layer of fabric is treated with (DWR) so if you get caught in rain storm the dress will handle the moisture well. The zippered pocket is also great to stick a small tube of sunblock or lip balm.''[''Check the prices here!'']''Patagonia ReCircle Dress''We love Pataonia and love that their always looking to reduce their impact and improve the supply line. This dress is designed from a new lightweight eco friendly material called TENCEL. The material is more absorbent than cotton, softer than silk, and cooler than linen all while being made from a closed loop system. It’s a slam dunk in our books for eco conscious travelers.''[''Check the prices here'']''Accessories''Buff Headband''We both travel around with buff headbands and they’re some of our favorite travel accessories that we’ve recommended a handful of times. They’re great for keeping sweat out of our eyes on a hike. Or in dust out of your face when riding down a dusty road, which you’ll need on Safari. They offer sun protection, can act as a scarf, and a whole bunch of other things. Buy one and fall in love with it.''{''Check prices here!''}''Columbia Sportswear Bora Bora Booney Sunhat''You spend a lot of time outside on a safari. We often fall into the category of people who do not take sun protection seriously enough. Yes, we wear sunblock on the beach, but outside of that, it’s not something we regularly think about. The time you spend outside adds up.''On our first safari, I ended up paying for it with a nice sunburn on my neck and face because I didn’t even think about it. Mind you that was in the winter… Do yourself a favor and invest in sun protection. If it’s not a hat, at the very least wear sunblock. Even the game rangers we meet wear hats and sunblock. The full safari dress does serve a purpose. If you want to get a more''in-depth look to safari hats you can check out our post detailing the best hats on the market''.''{''Check prices here!''}''Tips On\xa0Safari Clothes''First and foremost,''you do not have to wear any special safari clothes''. At the end of the day the majority of your time is spent in a vehicle where it doesn’t matter all that much.''Attempt to blend in. Remember to wear a safari outfit and clothes suited for the environment.''Don’t wear animal prints or some ridiculous getup. You’re not bushwacking through the African jungle. This isn’t Jumanji. You’ll spend the majority of your time in the back of a vehicle. So, wear comfortable clothes that will not stain from dirt, offer sun protection, and are comfortable from the heat or cold.''Mind the weather. It can get really really cold in the back of a game vehicle in Africa early morning or\xa0at night. Make sure to pack a nice jacket. I didn’t recommend any here – anything that breaks the wind should do.''DO NOT wear blue in Eastern Africa. The color blue attracts the Tsetse fly, and''this is not a myth''.''Don’t overpack. You only need a handful of shirts and pants. You are in the African bush, there is no need for multiple wardrobe changes. However, it goes without saying to always pack ample underwear and socks.''Keep it relaxed. At five star lodges in Africa, things are still casual. Just because it costs one thousand dollars night doesn’t mean you need to be dressed up.''A good pair of''sunglasses''will save your eyes from staring at landscapes all day.''Make sure to pack in layers. It will go from cold in the morning to hot at night and then back to evening time.''Bring a light rain jacket depending on the season. Most Safari companies and lodges come prepared in this aspect and will provide their guests with nice thick ponchos, but if you’re doing it on your don’t forget a rain jacket.''Pockets. We love clothing with pockets to carry sunblock, chapstick, flashlight, camera, or binoculars. It’s better than having to juggle around a bag. We already have our''safari cameras to contend with''in the back of a game viewer.''Clothing Brands We Recommend''Where to buy safari clothes? It’s pretty tough outside of South Africa to find a store that carries safari clothes. I would recommend you shop online. At the end of the day, we like to choose quality. A good safari outfit is versatile, long lasting, and timeless. Spending the extra dough to buy decent brands is almost always a good idea. One of the best brands in our opinion is Patagonia.''Patagonia''– If you’ve read any of our other packing guides you’ll know we love this brand. They make great quality clothes that hold up.''REI''– This is one of our favorite stores! There may be no REI safari clothes specifically, but you can find a great number of products that will serve you well in the bush.''Columbia''– This is a great outdoor company with affordable products. We tend to like Patagonia more, but the brand costs significantly more for a slight improvement in quality. {''Shop the brand here!''}''First Ascent''–\xa0You can’t find this brand in America, but if shopping in South Africa they make some great quality clothes.''Royal Robbins''– Specialize in outdoor and travel gear making some perfect safari clothes. {''Shop the brand here!''}''prAna''– They’re a closer runner up to Patagonia for style and quality when it comes to outdoor apparel.''Read Next:''The Best Safari Boots For Bush Walks''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''The Best Safari Shirts for Men and Women''Our journey across Africa: A true African safari''Africa’s Best Places to Have a Safari Vacation''African Safari Tips: Ten Things You Need To Know!''Our journey across Africa: A true African safari''December 18, 2017''10 Safari Bags to Consider for Your Trip to Africa''August 31, 2017''Where to Have the Best African Safari Vacation''August 25, 2017''Ultimate Safari Clothes Guide: What To Wear On Safari In Africa''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Cameron''I must admit that I am not extremely knowledgeable\xa0when it comes to wine. Don’t get me wrong, I love having a glass of red wine each night or three (*for heart reasons of course*). However, when I am at a traditional food and wine pairing and someone asks me “now what do you taste?” I just don’t have a good answer besides “wine.”''That’s why I was so excited when we were set up to go on a food and wine pairing tour around the Stellenbosch vineyards in South Africa to try a plethora of different food and wine pairing options. With all these new and different wine pairings, I was bound to become a better wine connoisseur'', right?''Well, turns out my week in Stellenbosch taking wine tours paid off. I can now say that I can go to the vineyard and pick out what I like. No, I’m not a Master Sommelier, but after hanging around South Africa’s wine region I can say with confidence I am a better wino. I want you to enjoy your wine like I did as well with these tours. Here are the best Stellenbosch wine tours we found ourselves on!''The Best Stellenbosch Wine Tours''Wine & Salt Pairing at\xa0Die Bergkelder''Merlot''with beef carpaccio.''Sauvignon Blanc''with salmon gravlax.''Pinotage''with salted peanuts. What do all those pairings have in common besides sounding delectable? They all involve salt in the dishes! We loved our salt pairing wine tour with the unfiltered and prestigious''Fleur Du Cap wines at Die Bergkelder''.''The wines here are paired with natural\xa0artisanal salts from around the world like\xa0Hawaiian\xa0sea salts, Iranian blue rock salt, and Indian mineral salt. Salt has a very distinctive\xa0taste, and we would have never of thought to pair it with wine – thank god for this Stellenbosch wine tasting and trying it out!''Food and Wine Blending with Boerebraai\xa0at Middlevlei''The perfect family winery to stop at and enjoy wine and lunch!''Middlevlei''invites guests to come and have fun with their wine by blending and creating their own with different blends, sugars, and liquid wood smoke. After creating the perfect blend then it’s time for a traditional Afrikaans lunch. For the non-South Africans, a braai is a traditional outdoor barbecue\xa0perfect for all types of gatherings. We’ve had the good fortune of being invited to a number of braais and love trying all the different flavors involved.''Wine & Biltong Pairing at L’Avenir''Known for “Distinctly South African wines with a touch of French flair,”''L’Avenir''focuses on quality wines blending the two regions. We came here specifically for their wine and biltong pairing and left more than satisfied and would even dub it the best Stellenbosch wine tour on this list.''For those that don’t know,''Biltong''is the South African equivalent to beef jerky. It\xa0is savory and salty enough to make for a fantastic wine pairing. \xa0Our favorite here was their signature citrusy Brut Rose mixed with the spicy biltong. Yum!''Wine & Everything Pairing at Delaire Graff''Coined “The jewel of the Cape Winelands”''Delaire Graff''is truly\xa0luxury at its finest. \xa0In between the majestic mountains\xa0and overlooking the valleys of''Stellenbosch''is the fantastic Indochine restaurant where visitors can have a seven-course\xa0food and wine pairing. All the food is Asian themed and the waiters know their stuff when it comes to proper pairings. We walked in and told our server that we completely trusted his judgment and were not disappointed. I would definitely recommend taking an Uber to and from Indochine. At the end of seven glasses of high-class wine there is no\xa0leaving in the driver\xa0seat of a car.''Wine & Chocolate Pairing at Lanzerac''This beautiful estate takes chocolate and wine takes a whole other level. Going from white chocolate and dark cinnamon orange chocolate to their premium chardonnays and pinotage, you won’t leave disappointed. This tasting started off our tasting tour in the Stellenbosch region and left us wanting more and more. They were\xa0the first bottle Pinotage in the Stellenbosch region, have''an impressive tasting room'', stunning outdoor surroundings, and even a luxurious spa for when you’re ready to retire the wine.''Wine & Cupcake Pairing at Delheim''If not completely full yet then make way to''Delheim''high in the Simonsberg Mountains. \xa0This family-owned estate has been passed down for generations and is known for their wine and cupcake pairing. Four cupcakes – four glasses of wine. What could possibly be sweeter?''Where to stay in Stellenbosch''It’s going to be hard to do all these Stellenbosch wine tours in one day! A base is definitely needed while exploring South Africa’s wine region to fully enjoy all the wine that is on offer. We found that base at''Oude Werf Hotel''conveniently located in Stellenbosch’s\xa0main square. Oude Werf is Stellenbosch’s “oldest, newest hotel,” and has been an inn since 1802. Now it is a beautiful lush hotel that still maintains the old flair it had since the very beginning.''The rooms at Oude Werf are designed with optimal comfort in mind. The beds have been meticulously\xa0chosen so that guests are ensured a good nights sleep. Rooms open up to the old yard (meaning “Oude Werf”) which is vibrant green and has a fabulous lounge area. \xa0I did say that this was the newest, oldest hotel right? Well, being the newest one can expect high-speed internet, satellite\xa0TV, and even\xa0Nespresso machines in the rooms.''When pooped from all the wine pairings during the day, guests can rest easy knowing that they don’t have to walk far for dinner. The Oude Werf restaurant is just in the rear of the hotel and is a comfortable, yet stylish place to have a quaint dinner. Gather around the fireplace on the cold nights or step outside to eat under the vines in the courtyard. The restaurant serves''traditional South African''and Cape dishes with an astonishing variety of dishes and of course, wine.''You know what they say – location, location, location. Oude Werf is situated right on Church street, meaning it’s literally steps away from all the famous landmarks, shops, cafes, and most important the wine estates. We loved being able to park our car in their underground free parking for a few days while we could walk everywhere and mozy about.''Whether a South African or a foreigner traveling the country, Stellenbosch is certainly worth at least a few days stop. To really embrace all that the region has to offer and not feel completely rushed then I would recommend staying 4-7 days exploring the Stellenbosch vineyards. The region is hailed as being one of the best in the world for wine lovers. Even for the non-wine drinkers, there is still plenty to do, see, and drink check out more of our experiences here.''How to do these Stellenbosch wine tastings''Many wineries accept walk-ins for wine tastings, however, it’s never a bad idea to call ahead and make a booking ahead of time. The best way to get around Stellenbosch is with your own vehicle. We rented ours in Johannesburg before setting out on our grand South African road trip.''If you don’t have a car or think you’ll wine tastings will put you over the drinking limit. I would suggest hopping a Stellenbosch guided tour!''Book a tour here!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Thank you to Stellenbosch Wine Routes & our sponsors for their support on this trip, as always all opinions are our own.''You May Also Like:''Buying a Car in South Africa and Being Undesirable''Six Must See Places In South Africa''How Ecotourism in South Africa is Implemented at Gondwana Game Reserve''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''The Best Stellenbosch Wine Tours and Tastings to Experience''was last modified:''November 30th, 2017''by''Natasha''We just crossed our first year of travel off the list. We traveled to 19 countries, took 37 buses, 17 flights, 11 trains, 8 ferries, 6 rental cars, saw 78 cities, and slept in 98 beds. So, to celebrate, we took a selection of our favorite clips from our around the world. Safe travels everyone! This is really just scratching the surface of our travels after 365 days of bouncing around the world.''Countries visited in order:''Latvia''Lithuania''Poland''Cyprus''Turkey''Italy''Morocco''Slovenia''Serbia''Macedonia''Albania''Montenegro''Croatia''Greece''The Seychelles''South Africa''Swaziland''Mozambique''Lesotho''Stay tuned! The World Pursuit Vlog is on its way. 😉''A Year of Traveling the World: 19 Countries in Five Minutes''was last modified:''October 5th, 2016''by''Cameron''It’s officially been a year since we dropped everything,''left New York City'', and packed our bags to see the world.\xa0It was mutually decided that our twenties were too valuable to spend doing something we didn’t believe in. In 12 months we managed to visit 19 countries across two continents: Latvia,''Lithuania'',''Poland'',''Cyprus'',''Turkey'',''Italy'',''Morocco,''Slovenia'',''Serbia'',''Macedonia'',''Albania'',''Montenegro'',''Croatia,''Greece'',''Seychelles'',''South Africa'',''Swaziland'',''Mozambique'', and Lesotho in that order. So much does it cost to travel the world?''Enjoying the views from the Seychelles islands''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''When we left we had a''decent savings account'', but ultimately\xa0had no clue how much we would be spending every day. We shot for a goal of $35/day in Europe and $40/day in Africa.''We took:''37 Buses''17 Flights''11 Trains''8 Ferries''6 Rental Cars''And we slept in''98 beds''across''78 cities''.''We stayed in all sorts of accommodation\xa0– hostels, Airbnb’s, African lodges, beachside condos, and standard hotel rooms. For the most part, we ate well, and never skimped out on a coffee when necessary. Are you ready for the price this all cost? As I was going over all the calculations last night I got nervous. “''Just how much have we spent this past year''?”''$12,600 per person.''Of course, this can be done and many people can do it for much less, but because of our need for sushi and fresh local produce at every farmer’s market, I didn’t think we pulled it off this year. So we spent $25,200 for the two of us, and this is''including''the recent purchase of our''DJI Phantom 3 Drone'', that will help capture\xa0incredible aerial footage\xa0of Africa (''like this!''). That means on average we stayed just on par with our budget, coming in at $35.80 a day. Is it cheaper than you thought it would be? I know if I told my friends and family they would be shocked.''When we lived in our one bedroom apartment in the Bronx we spent at least''$1,300pp a month on basic living expenses'', with''ZERO''fun involved in that cost. Just the apartment alone cost $60 a day. All we did was sleep there after our long work days!''So here is a little pie chart of how we spent our money including accommodation'',''transportation (flights, buses, car rentals,)''restaurants,''and all activities (visas, tickets, entrance fees, groceries, coffee)''What these costs include is the cost of travel insurance, property insurance, and even personal choices like replenishing clothes,''haircuts'',''new camera toys'', and things like catching a movie out every once in awhile. Every''whale shark dive'',''African safari'',''Italian cappuccino'', and airplane ticket is included in the breakdown.''What this''cost doesn’t include are our hosted stays''. Sometimes as travel bloggers we receive\xa0comped accommodation in return for an online presence, photography, or social media exposure. We stayed in\xa0some dream worthy accommodation like''this''and''this'', for 41 days out of the year. The cost also doesn’t include nights when we stayed with friends and family on the road – because who can put a price on that? We stayed with family and friends around the world for 23 days this past year. I know that this is 2 months worth of free accommodation, so I can confidently say that if we were paying for every single night of accommodation at our highest price of $23 per person per night then this would have tacked on $943 each to our total. If you look at it this way, then we spent $''13,543 pp''traveling this year.''This isn’t to show you just how cheap we traveled\xa0because I don’t believe we traveled on a shoestring\xa0budget at any point. I want to showcase that it is possible to travel''comfortably''while staying on a fairly strict budget. I know that most people don’t want to stay in hostels or Couchsurf\xa0– and that’s okay. Quite frankly, we prefer not to stay in shared accommodation\xa0anymore either. We like having our own bathroom, a private bedroom with no snorers present, and our own private space to work. If we want to zone out into our computers all day, we have no fear of\xa0being judged. This isn’t to say we don’t like hostels,''they are actually are a\xa0great place to meet people''; especially, when you are traveling solo. We prefer our comfort over cost now.''Although, it may seem like we ate ramen noodles every night and slept in bed bug infested places it very far from reality. What is our greatest strength at cutting\xa0costs while traveling comfortably? We travel as a pair. Every car rental, apartment, and hotel room – we split the cost. The second factor? Our decision to stay out of Western Europe. We’ve both traveled there and love it. It is a wonderful part of the world. I could live there and maybe call myself some sort of\xa0European someday…but to visit, it’s expensive and touristy. We couldn’t justify the cost. So, we decided to start our trip in the Baltics and work our way down through Eastern Europe. The only expensive Western European country we spent a large\xa0portion of time in this year was''Italy for six weeks''. Other than that, we spent the majority of our''European time in the Balkans''and in the''Mediterranean''.''Next comes Africa. As it’s the least developed continent you may think that it would be dirt cheap.''News Flash''.''It’s not''.''From the country’s we have been in so far I would say Africa is much more expensive than Southeast Asia, but definitely cheaper than a holiday in France. It’s\xa0right about on par with prices in Croatia, Slovenia, and Greece. This is assuming you don’t go all out and blow your dough on some sort of overland safari.''The beautiful Drakensberg Mountains''So here are some of the highlights of our past year (in money terms) presented in USD and EUR:''The cheapest accommodation we stayed at:''Was an entire apartment off Airbnb in''Tirana, Albania''for $16/night total. \xa0Do you want a bargain in Europe?''Head to Albania!''The next step up from that was''Antigona Apartments''in Ulcinj, Montenegro for $10/night per person. The room was situated on the edge of a cliff overlooking the Aegean Sea. We woke up to the sound of the waves crashing into the cliff. Who said comfort and serenity have to be expensive?''The most expensive accommodation we stayed at:''Was an''Airbnb apartment rental in the Seychelles''for a whopping $100/night. We could have gone a tad bit cheaper and got bare bones, but these islands definitely aren’t welcoming to the budget vacationer. For $100 a night we got a basic but nice apartment surrounded by the lush forests with no WiFi included (WiFi is very expensive in the Seychelles, so we lived without).''The best place we stayed at:''Was obviously one of our amazing sponsored stays like at''Anvil Bay in Mozambique''or at''Montusi Mountain Lodge''in the Drakensberg. But I will have to give the best place we stayed at and paid cash for to''Rododaphi apartments in Cyprus''. The fully equipped apartment cost us $17/per person while overlooking the Mediterranean sea. It was run by the friendliest Cypriot with beautiful gardens growing fresh fruit and a grotto just below the property to take a dip in the Med Sea. We still reminisce about it and would recommend the property to anyone in a heartbeat.''Playing around in Avakas Gorge, Cyprus''The worst place we stayed in:''Also in Cyprus, the worst place we stayed at was''Delphi Hotel''on the Greek side of Nicosia. This place was overpriced, right next to the bus station, and even airing on the dirty side. Unfortunately at $23/per person a night it was the absolute cheapest accommodation we could find in the city. (''And this was with three people in a room!'')''The cheapest car rental we had:''Was in Croatia for €56/week. It\xa0was a brand new Smart car. I’m still not sure if this was a mistake or if their prices were just''that''low. Either way, I wasn’t complaining. we’ll\xa0certainly be using SiXT whenever possible again.''The most expensive car rental we had:''We rented a brand new, 45km on it, Mazda NP200 for the first two months of our African journey through South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Mozambique. Little to our knowledge we should have gone with a 4×4 for those Mozambican roads…but went a step down with a 2×4 bakkie. This cost us a grand total of $1050. It was a necessity for the kind of travel we wanted to do. We can’t afford to keep renting cars though,''so our current\xa0plans are to purchase a 4×4 in Cape Town''and drive across Africa.''UPDATE'':''We did''!''Our most expensive flight''We didn’t take many flights this year as Europe is a great place for overland travel. You may have guessed our most expensive flight was from Istanbul>Seychelles>Johannesburg for $493 each. No, we couldn’t pass up the chance to spend a long layover in one of the most beautiful places in the world for less than some people’s\xa0monthly Starbucks bill.''Our cheapest flight''Would be from Istanbul to Cappadocia with Turkish Airlines for $25 including baggage and a meal on board. \xa0Istanbul has won our hearts over as one of our favorite cities, but we absolutely could not miss out on seeing the''hot air balloons over the fairytale chimneys''in Cappadocia.''Our most expensive meal''We splurged for both our birthdays and spent $55 total each time. One was at a''fantastic sushi spot in Cape Town,''completed with a bottle of wine and the second was in Bodrum where we gorged on fresh fish. Our next priciest food option was when we went to''Le Saveur De Poisson Tanger''so that we could eat where Anthony Bourdain went in Morocco. All of these meals are still a fraction of what a nice meal out in New York City would have cost us.''Our cheapest meal''Would probably have to be a packet of ramen noodles somewhere along the way when we couldn’t find food. Otherwise, our best bang for buck would have to be in''Naples, Italy''where we each got our own famous Margherita pizza for €3.50. \xa0Oh, what I would do for this pizza every day.''The longest place we stayed.''We have traveled South Africa for 2 months and counting. This is inclusive of our amazing month long apartment rental in Cape Town. Which was needed as a base and workspace as we plan the rest of Africa. After that, the longest place we stayed in was Belgrade. There\xa0we were able to score\xa0a''cute 2 bedroom apartment in a hip neighborhood for $550''for the month. Didn’t I tell you the Balkans were cheap? \xa0While we don’t always think Airbnb is the best for short term rentals because of the fees, it is perfect for anything longer than a week. Where we are able to settle down and make ourselves at home. Have you tried Airbnb yet?''Here is $42 for your first trip''!''Here are some of our highlights from the trip in video form!''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World: Accommodation''This is going to make up the largest portion of most budgets. If you’re anything like me you will want a *comfortable* bed to sleep in for the night. There are plenty of websites to find accommodation on. When we are in Europe and Africa we first scan''Booking.com''for short term rentals. In Asia, we like to use''Agoda''first. After we see the results from those websites we check Airbnb because we prefer to stay at an apartment over a hotel. If we have exhausted all those resources and STILL can’t find what we want in our price range, we turn to hostels and try to get a private room. We also like to use Booking.com to find hostels because we enjoy\xa0their interface. If time allows we attempt to contact a property directly to get the best rates. Hotels and hostels usually charge more on booking engines to make up for commission (15%).''The Cost to Travel the World: Transportation''Flights are always going to be a hard hitter, but flexibility is key. Do you care what country you want to start a trip in? How about time of year, is this a factor for you? When researching flights we always go on''Skyscanner''and do very vague searches. Skyscanner lets you literally type in “Everywhere” as a destination and will also let you pick “2016” as a date. From there we find out what destination\xa0is the cheapest to fly into and what time of year we can get a deal. I also signed up for the''Secret Flying newsletter'',\xa0which sends me the lowdown on error fares around the world every day. It’s here that we scored the $500 flight to the Seychelles continuing on to South Africa. Depending on what part of the world you are in, every bus, train, ferry ticket is going to add up. So if you’re traveling super fast consider getting a rail pass. This was a fantastic purchase decision I made in both Japan and Western Europe in 2013.''Snowboarding in Lesotho''So, how did we keep our expenses down?''As I mentioned before, traveling as a pair definitely helps keep expenses down. If you can grab a travel buddy for any leg of a trip I would recommend it. We even traveled as a triplet for 2 months through Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Cyprus, and Turkey when Cameron’s sister joined us. This helped us keep food cost down when we cooked in!''Travel Slowly. We travel as slow or as fast as we want. When we love a place – we stay. When we aren’t feeling somewhere – we leave. More often than not we want more time in a certain destination, so we stay longer. This helps keep transportation costs low, as well as food costs. Since you are able to purchase more perishable goods to cook your own meals. However, most importantly, when you stay in one place for a long time you can work out deals with accommodation providers who are more often than not happy to give you a discount. We usually save 30-40% on Airbnb’s when we stay at someone’s place for more than a week.''Stay out of expensive countries. For optimal money saving try to stay out of North America, anywhere west of Poland, and away from Australia. I will also throw Africa onto this list as safari tours can really break a budget. I love all of these regions of the world. They are beautiful and provide western comforts. But after traveling to parts of Europe, Southeast Asia, and South America nothing drives me nuts\xa0more than an overpriced latte. Check out our''travel banking tips''for more money saving ideas.''I won’t say to just cook all your meals in, because half the fun of going to a new country is trying the cuisine. But always make sure to check the prices of menus beforehand and allocate a set budget to food prices. And never forget about a service charge or tip, those little costs can add up.''Could we have done this whole year for cheaper? YES! It’s even''possible to travel when you hardly have any money''! Without the restaurant eating, nights out, coffee shop runs, and everything else that a human doesn’t need to survive we could have easily come in at under $9000 per person for the year. However, as much as we like to travel we also like to be comfortable while on the road.''Companies that help us keep our budget in line''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''to feel more at home when traveling we use Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More'':''Check out our favorite travel accessories!''Did we do well with our budget? What’s the cheapest you have traveled on?''You May Also Like:''My 25 Best Travel Tips From Traveling 60+ Countries in my Twenties''15 Unbelievable Eco-Friendly Products to Take on Your Travels''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''How Travel Bloggers Make Money • Our Story''April 17, 2018''110 of the Best Travel Quotes for Inspiration''April 12, 2018''15 Tips to Choosing a Good Airbnb (+Coupon Code)''March 5, 2018''2017 • Our Highs, Lows, and Everything in Between''January 17, 2018''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''was last modified:''November 14th, 2017''by''Natasha''There are so many must-see places in South Africa, that the country is the perfect destination for any traveler. It is full of experiences not to miss in one’s lifetime.''See\xa0wild lions, catch\xa0a wave on a surfboard, relax in\xa0a 7-star lodge, jump off the highest bridge bungee bridge in the world, snap a selfie with penguins, or get up close and personal with whales.''We just spent two months touring the beautiful country and here’s our list of must-see places in South Africa.''Must See Places in South Africa''The Kruger National Park''Kruger National Park''in South Africa is one of the largest game reserves in Africa and with such a dense animal population it makes for one of the best places to take a safari. The national park is roughly the size of Israel, so it almost feels like its own country. The animal and plant diversity here is staggering with 404 woody plants and 224 kinds of grass, 53 fish, 34 amphibians, 118 reptiles, 517 birds and 147 mammals. So grab a guidebook and start checking off your sightings because you will lose count. For more info check out the''national parks site''.''Cape Town''Located on the Southwestern tip of South Africa, Cape Town is a must-see for the world. It is Africa’s most visited tourist destination\xa0and has one of the best backdrops in the world with the iconic Table Mountain. The city enjoys the mild year-round weather and is surrounded by natural beauty. The surrounding cape area is gorgeous offering beautiful beaches, wine lands, and mountains. You can see wild penguins, shop at a wonderful craft market, climb a mountain, and''dine at a hip restaurant''all in one day in Cape Town. It’s not hard to see why so many people flock here.''The Drakensberg Mountains''The Drakensberg Mountains''were a must see place in South Africa for us as I have a passion for a good hike. The Drakensberg region offers\xa0some of Africa’s best hiking, and maybe even some of the best in the world. You have great mountain lodges, dramatic mountains, snowboarding, culture, the Golden Gate Highlands National Park, and the best small town in''South Africa here''. It all culminates in the one of the most impressive natural formations on the planet, The Drakensberg Amphitheater. Don’t forget to visit the mountain country surrounded by South Africa, Lesotho. We stayed at a number of charming places, but the highlight was the\xa0Montusi Mountain Lodge.''Cape Wine Lands''Do you like to drink wine? Because the wine lands around the''Cape of South Africa''produce some of the best wines. You can choose from Paarl, Stellenbosch, and Franschhoek for a great wine tour or all of them. We visited Stellenbosch, the largest, and sampled some of their fine wines. They make excellent\xa0Sav Blanc, Chenin Blanc, Shiraz, Cabernet, and their own specialty Pinotage. The whole region is stunning with plenty to offer, such as fine dining restaurants and boutique hotels. Our two favorite places to stay were Oude Werf and Rozendal cottages.''Hermanus''This fishing town is home to whale-watching. And it’s proximity to the Southernmost point of Africa makes for a great day trip. The real draw here is the ability to see whales, seals, manta rays, and sharks in the wild. And for those brave enough you have a chance to see great white sharks up close and personal from the water from the nearby town of Gansbaai. Yes, we even got in the water and''took a dive with them!''The sharks are massive, beautiful, and terrifying. In Hermanus, you come to respect the majestic marine life in our oceans and understand just how important it is to protect.''One of the Many Townships''A major reason to travel to South Africa is the culture. It’s not in the fine restaurants, art galleries, or national parks. The culture of South Africa stems from\xa0the brimming townships. They are an important aspect of South African history. A living testament to the damage inflicted by Apartheid and a harsh reminder of the poverty that afflicts\xa0Africa. It is also a source of vibrant culture. The streets are filled with\xa0street art, colorful houses, and smiling faces. Don’t listen to the bad rap they often receive, with the right tour guide they are safe and welcoming. One must simply know\xa0where to go.''The Garden Route''The Garden route is right along with Cape Town for being one of the most trafficked tourist destinations in South Africa. This beautiful stretch of road along the coast extends from Mossel Bay to Storms River. The name comes from the unique vegetation that can be found here with quaint towns and cities dotting the coastline. It’s also home to one of our''favorite game reserves''offering visitors to explore the Fynbos. Towns like Knysna, Plettenberg Bay, and George are sure to the amuse those looking for something more relaxed, like day walking along the beach followed by a fresh seafood dinner along the water. Or you can throw yourself off the world’s highest bridge bungee instead!''There is plenty more to\xa0South Africa!''This is really only the tip of the iceberg of\xa0must-see places in South Africa. It’s a big country filled with hundreds of interesting sites. We could spend several months exploring South Africa and still not feel we’ve seen it all. However, if you’re pressed for time checking one or all of them off the list are sure to not disappoint any visitor to South Africa.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Check The Rates:''AccommoDirect.com'', they have\xa015,000+ listings across Africa has fantastic accommodation. We always\xa0remember to shop around\xa0and compare prices with them when traveling.''Tours in South Africa:''If you would rather tour around South Africa check out some of these''South African tours.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''Six Must See Places In South Africa''was last modified:''March 8th, 2018''by''Cameron''Morocco is a great destination to visit during any month of the year. If you have''plans to visit Morocco soon''and have no idea what to pack for Morocco, you’re not alone. Before we went I had no idea of the appropriate clothing, the weather, and what I would be able to buy in the country.''We spent six weeks there and I was able to gather insight on the type of things needed for travelers to have a fantastic experience. Of course, there is no “dress code” in Morocco like at a Catholic school. However,\xa0conservative dress in an Arabic culture will\xa0provide you with less unwanted attention and respect.''What to Pack for Morocco''Essentials''Cool Shoes:''And no I don’t mean cool shoes as in like “Cool shoe bro!” I mean get a pair of breathable shoes to walk around Morocco in. It gets hot in Morocco and you don’t want your\xa0feet to be constantly sweaty and stinky. I love the''Nike Free Flyknit\xa0Shoes''for their breathability in situations like this.''Harem Pants:''Men and women shouldn’t wear shorts in Morocco. It is a Muslim country so be respectful and keep the legs covered up. I walked around almost everyday in one of my''many pairs of Harem pants''. If it were acceptable to wear these in any country in any situation then I totally would. So comfortable and lightweight!''A Scarf or Shawl:''While we are on the subject of being modest then you should throw a''scarf or shawl''into your suitcase for Morocco. They are always good to have when you need to cover your head before walking into a Mosque. I also like wearing scarves around my head while just walking around. As a blonde, I tend to get a lot of unwanted attention and a scarf\xa0helps with that.''Shemagh:''Just throwing this into your bag is going to make\xa0packing for Morocco a breeze.\xa0A''Shemagh''is the perfect travel accessory for both the men and the women travelers out there. This can be worn for just about anything. From keeping warm, to doubling as an eye mask the shemagh has tons of different uses. It’s perfect for anyone heading into the Sahara wanting to keep the sand out of their face. I would personally recommend buying this before you land, because once you travel to the desert there will plenty of touts willing to sell you a cheap one\xa0at an exuberant price.''Tunic:''I’ve touched on what would be great to wear for the bottom half of the body, but what about the top?''A tunic''is a great lightweight option to wear around Morocco. A tunic will keep you cool and reveal little to anyone with wandering eyes.''Coats''If you are planning on taking a trip the beautiful Sahara desert then you will''need''a jacket to keep warm at night''. \xa0This is essential and if you caught without one…well it’s going to be a very bad night. I know it’s the desert, but believe me when I say the temperature will plummet at night. We always recommend you throw in a''great packable down jacket''.''If you do have plans to go to some of the coastal cities of Morocco then a light windbreaker jacket will help, especially in the winter. I have been traveling around with my''Northface rain jacket''and love it for walking on the windy beaches.''Chefchaouen, the wonderful Moroccan blue city'', is located in the mountains and it does get chilly up there. Pack at one nice sweater or fleece to stay warm here.''Electronics''Phone:''It is a fact that if you are in Marrakech or Fez then you will be getting lost in the medina. It’s not a matter of if but when. On top of that forget asking any local for directions without paying them some sort of tip. So, needless to say don’t forget''your phone''to help you get around (forget about a map, then you are just asking for it). We always download offline maps to our phones to help us get around. Never once had to pay for directions in Morocco.''Camera:''A high-quality camera is an important packing item for Morocco if you want some great shots while on your vacation.''I travel with my''Fujifilm X-T10''and''200mm telephoto lens'',\xa0but I’m not afraid to take out our tiny and discrete''GoPro''.''Adapter:''Remember that Morocco uses the''Europlug''. Make sure you find a good adapter like the''one I have''to keep you charged. Otherwise, you may be paying for a cheap one once you land.''Other Clothes to Consider''Maxi Dress'': For a more girly look try wearing a''cute maxi dress''in Morocco for walking around the medinas in.''Socks:''Essential for those nights in the desert I keep mentioning. You will want to keep your feet nice and warm near that cold sand. We travel with a couple pairs of the''Danish Endurance Merino Wool''socks and our feet have never felt warmer.''Swimsuit:''Just because you’re in a Muslim country doesn’t mean you can’t wear a bathing suit for when you are at your riad or at the beach. I would recommend bringing''one for the summer months.''Especially, if your hotel has a pool or you are going to coastal towns like''Essaouira''and Assilah.''Other Useful Morocco Travel Items''Lifestraw Go:''It’s not advisable to drink the tap water in Morocco. We use the Lifestraw Go for all those times during our travels when the water is questionable.''Hand Sanitizer:''Walking around and taking part in everyday activities in Morocco can get pretty dirty. You can’t go wrong bringing some''hand sanitizer''and''baby wipes''in your bag.''Sunglasses:''There is a lot of sunshine in Morocco. \xa0Make sure to bring a pair of''killer sunglasses with you.''Sunscreen:''Protect the skin and use sunscreen, always.\xa0Our favorite to use is''Peak Sunscreen''because it’s eco-friendly and water resistant.''Electrolyte Tablets'': Dehydration in Morocco is a real concern and should be taken seriously. These tablets should have your body back to normal should you happen to fall sick.''This post brought to you by''Tazo® Tea''. The content and opinions expressed below are that of The World Pursuit.''If you’d look at our Instagram or various social media websites our lives look pretty awesome – and most of the time they are! However, we live on the road, that means when we’ve had a long day we aren’t returning home anywhere. There’s no familiar bed, comfy couch, or a fridge full of our favorite products to help us relax. So, we learn ways our to cope.''Slow Down''The first thing we must do is slow down. When your vacation is only two weeks you’ve got a lot to cram in, but extend that to 52 weeks and things can\xa0get exhausting, to say the least. So, we opt to stay in places for a longer period of time. For instance, we have settled down in Cape Town for the next month with a nice Airbnb. In doing so we’re able to book a place that provides us an affordable rate for a month, and it is really important to our sanity. This helps combat some travel fatigue. It’ also about the familiarity as slowing down lets you be able to have a regular schedule. It’s surprising how far simple things like enjoying your own personal tea brand, which is Tazo Tea®, in a familiar environment can\xa0go. \xa0So, what do we do to fight the travel fatigue?''Unpack''The constant packing and unpacking on the road can be tedious, but being able to reach into a drawer and find your clothes just helps your sanity. If it’s more than four days we always try to unpack. Add to that the ability to actually become familiar with a place for a month goes a long way.''Pop in Kanye’s New Workout Plan''A month of living in a new city means that we can do regular things we’ve come to really miss like getting a great workout in. Trying out gyms, getting a month-long membership, morning runs, or whatever else gets our hearts pumping is now available and we can easily set up.''Cook''Eating out at great restaurants is a wonderful part of travel, but we also like to control what we eat. We aren’t big meat eaters and I love to cook so a nice big kitchen is a luxury on the road.''Unwind & Work''Sure we get to relax a lot, like''in the\xa0winelands'',\xa0or''in the mountains'', or''at the beach''. However relaxing on the road is not the same as coming home to a familiar place and decompress.''Care Package Time''Staying in one place for a while means we can get a care package with all of our favorite things from our lovely parents back home. Things like boxed Mac & Cheese, our favorite deodorant, socks, t-shirt brands, and our favorite tea. A personal favorite has to be TAZO Tea’s''Zen™''blend. It’s an awesome mix of green tea, lemongrass, and mint which is perfect for us at any point during the day.''Hot Tea Perfection''What’s great about being based in a home for a month is it allows us to stock our own tea and can wake up with a fresh hot pot to share. We also love having our\xa0tea at home while editing our latest assignment or watching a new movie. Which, is the perfect time to make use of our care package and pour a cup of Tazo Tea''Passion®''blend or the''Awake™ English Breakfast''blend.''Find a''Tazo Tea''Near You''The wine comes later at night''We’re not grandparents and we did just come from one of the best wine regions in the world. Of course, we made sure to stock up on plenty of bottles.''Read More:''{''Don’t Miss One of the Best Wine Regions in the World''}''Doesn’t matter where''It does not matter where we are just as long as we can regroup after a while on the road. We all need it. So, being able to sit back relax and #SipJoyfully is some much-needed R&R from our traveling lifestyle.''How We Slow Down While On The Road''was last modified:''November 1st, 2016''by''Natasha''There are three things I don’t look forward to when traveling – laundry, redeye flights, and haircuts. Thankfully the last one only needs to happen about every three to four months for me. However, when I am traveling I usually double that and push it to eight.''I’ve gotten my hair cut once while abroad at a salon in Italy, and it was fantastic. The stylist and I couldn’t understand each other, but I brought her a photo of what I wanted and she went to work. She chopped eight inches of my hair, and I can honestly say it was one of the best haircuts I’ve ever had. \xa0Those Italians are stylish.''Before and After in Italy''So when this post popped up on a Cape Town Facebook group, I jumped at the opportunity:''URGENT: looking for HAIR MODELS for THIS TUE AFTERNOON. BLONDE- for highlights and any other colour for a tint of your choice with cut. All done professionally with top-end products.''OMG''.''“I’m blonde, and I could totally use some highlights and a cut'',” I thought. I haven’t colored my hair in years, but I have been wanting pastel pink streaks in my hair ever since I can remember. Honestly, I’ve just never wanted to pay for it to be professionally done.''I instantly responded, and before I knew it I was in a brand new high-end salon in Cape Town, about to get a FREE haircut and color.''The stylist, a middle-aged Serbian man had been living in Cape Town for a few years and had just started at this new salon the day before. We reminisced about the''wonderful city of Belgrade''and our love for the Balkans. He told me about his days coloring fashion models hair, owning a salon, and traveling to''New York and around America''in his earlier years. I showed him the photo of what I wanted, subtle pink highlights that shouldn’t take too much time. I should be out of here in no time…I thought.''The photo I brought in, taken from Pinterest''There was a L’Oréal technician onsite to oversee everything since it was a new salon. She came and chatted to us and told both of us that with my color of blonde, he really didn’t need to do anything but put the pink color in. They asked if I wanted pastel purple too.''“Sure! I could go for pink and purple pastels''.” I was so excited. Now I could be the chick traveling Africa with mermaid hair!''I waited around a bit, read my book while he prepared, chit-chatted with some of the other hair models. However, after I had been there three hours and watched him take numerous''smoke breaks''I was starting to grow impatient. The stylist had only washed my hair and put a few strands of bleach in my hair for preparation, we hadn’t even started on the color and cut process. I was getting antsy as\xa0the time passed, but I knew it was free so I couldn’t say much.''So, what are you thinking for a cut,''” he asked.''“My hair is pretty short already since I just tried to give it my own personal cut while I was stranded on the beaches of Mozambique with no access to a salon. I really don’t need much cut off, just a trim and to even it out.” \xa0I warned him that I never style my hair, and I will be traveling Africa so I need a no maintenance\xa0do.''Read More:''{''Lost on the Mozambican Coast''}''I resorted to wearing my hair up every day in Mozambique after my failed haircut''“Ah, I got an idea and you will never ever even have to touch it.” Okay. I trusted him with giving me a good haircut, for what reason I don’t know. I mean the man seemed competent and he used to''style hair for the runway models''. Maybe it was all the talk he gave me of his experiences, maybe it was his clear Serbian confidence, maybe it was the fact that I was in an upscale salon. He cut my hair faster than a barber working on a sixty year old bald man’s head and then went to go mix dyes. Pink, purple, and blue he said.''“Uhhh, no blue,” I told him.''He didn’t listen. The L’Oréal technician came over and asked me again if I wanted blue in my hair because he was already mixing it.''No, NO BLUE''. Where on earth is he getting this idea that I want BLUE in my hair? This should have been my cue. Where I get up and ask for another stylist, get up and leave, tell the technician that he is taking forever and not listening at all.''But I didn’t, I trusted him still. He came back with dark pink and purple dyes. “Uhh, isn’t that a little bit of a dark pink to be putting on my hair?” I asked.''“No, no it’s fine it will lighten up when on.” He then slathered on the pink and purple dye onto my head without a brush, all free hand.''“I like to do it freehand, it blends it much better,” he continued.''I was getting scared. The pink was going everywhere from my roots to the tips. I asked for highlights! The technician came over and asked him why he was putting pink on my roots, to which he gave her no real response.''20 minutes later and we were washing it out in the basin. “Ah, it’s the perfect pastel,” he told me.''Okay, great. Maybe there was absolutely nothing to worry about I thought. We walked back to the chair, he blew my hair dry and I looked it the mirror…horrified.''My blonde hair, which had not seen a curling iron, straightener, blow dryer, or bleach in at least a year was now bright red with hints of purple. The red was everywhere, I couldn’t believe it. Is this some kind of joke?''I went in there with very simple instructions for pink highlights and he managed to turn my hair into a course ginger mess.''What happened next, still shocks me. Mr. Stylist actually left the salon. He said “I can’t do this anymore – I’m leaving,” claimed he was hungry and pranced right on out never to be seen again.''My hair was completely chopped to pieces, red, and frazzled. For the next 4 hours the other lady stylists at the\xa0salon cut my hair back to a short even state, and continued to color my hair brown to cover up the red and work in some blonde to get it as close to the natural color that I walked in with.''I left the salon''defeated, annoyed, angry,\xa0and with zero pink in my hair after 8 hours of hair abuse.''So what did I do when I got back to our apartment in Cape Town? Well, of course I did what any millennial would do and took to emailing Mr. Stylist telling him what a disaster the day had been and I couldn’t believe how poor his hair care skills were. The hope was to at least get an apology or some explanation for the off day he clearly had. Days passed, and not to my surprise the email went unanswered. \xa0But then after a week I got a response. A response that was so rude, filled with cursing, and almost impossible to read with all of its grammatical errors that I can’t even copy and paste it here. But the gist of it was that I was a “''Natzi fashist\xa0American b**** who deserved the terrible haircut and color.''”''Okay, besides having a good little giggle I couldn’t help but think.''What the hell did I do to this guy?''The long, long, long rant continued to talk about how I kill people for my own well-being, that all I do is sit on my fat ass and watch idiotic TV, that I live in a “puppet state,” that the only reason I am able to phone home to the terrible US is because of the great Serbia, and that I have done nothing in this world.''To my knowledge I have never killed anyone, I don’t even own a TV, and I know I’ve gained a little weight traveling, but I didn’t think I was fat! Thanks man! \xa0All I wanted was some pink highlights in my hair at a new hair salon and you claimed to have needed a hair model.''Then it hit me. Did this guy realize I was an American and decide to personally take it out on my hair? Maybe he wasn’t just a shitty stylist, maybe he really was out for some kind of vengeance. I suppose I will never know, but that was sure the way it seemed after these emails.''In case you may be wondering why this Serbian expat would hate Americans goes back almost 20 years to the Kosovo War. Long story short Kosovo was trying to split from Serbia after a long period of abuse and “ethnic cleansing” of the Kosovar Albanians.\xa0Serbian forces didn’t like that, and more human rights violations followed in the region. NATO, backed by the US bombed many places in Belgrade and around Serbia.''The remnants of the Yugoslav Ministry of Defence building was a daily site when we lived in Belgrade.''Now I am not a politician\xa0nor am I in the military. I was nine when the bombs rained over Serbia, so let’s just say I didn’t know what was going on in the world. I don’t think that I should personally be held accountable for the decisions made by my government, but I guess as an American traveler, we do occasionally get a bad rap. I know that America makes good and bad choices, but almost 100% of those choices are choices that I cannot control. And yes, I am just as sick of hearing and dealing with the 2016 election as everyone else in the world. I’ve''traveled in the Balkans''and seen the recent aftermath of the Yugoslav wars. Cam and I recently stayed in''Belgrade for a month in the exact neighborhood this stylist said he used to live,''and absolutely loved our time there. We went to Albania and were treated with extreme kindness from the Albanians, we had countless drinks out with Serbs, Bosnians, and Croats. We’ve visited Tito’s memorial and listened to the sad stories from\xa0the people from former Yugoslavia. We were never once treated with disrespect, we were occasionally treated with kindness, but most of the time we were just treated like every other Joe Schmo on the street.''Checking out Belgrade with 3 Serbs, and 2 Bulgarians''I often get asked if the Balkans are safe to travel through. I get asked if it’s okay for females alone. And I’ve gotten asked if they are worth visiting. To each question I always respond YES, of course, they are a wonderful part of the world.''I know this is a bit more of a personal story than we usually tell, but besides sharing one of my not so great travel experiences my other point in writing this today is about perception. If I had never been to Serbia before this happened, I would have thought that those Serbs are flippin’ crazy and they clearly will treat me poorly as an American, so why go? However, I know that is not true and we have made wonderful friendships in''Serbia and throughout the Balkans''. It’s always important to never let one bad apple cloud your judgment of a country or region. There are weird/mean/bad/crazy people all over the world, but there are also wonderful/kind/hospitable people too and I think every country deserves a chance to be uncovered and experienced.''These were two of our Serbian guides turned friends outside Niš. I hope they don’t think I’m a Nazi Fascist.''So please accept the goodness from people in the world, the smiles from those walking past you. Don’t judge a person by the nation they come from – they are just a person, not a president. And never, never, NEVER take anyone up on a free haircut and color on Facebook.''Lots of friends have been asking me for a photo. So here is the end result of my day after the other stylists took over.''The technician and stylist came in to save the day, and this is the end result.''And here’s just a''portion''of the email I received from Mr. Stylist:''I’ve left the formatting and have not altered the email in anyway.''“You are just another cheap scate from usa and after all this i couldn’t think of the better way to do your hair.after all we all deserve what happens to ourselfs so please go and cry your eyes out and bitch and moan on your boring stupid travel site as much as you want.I am not even there at that ugly city.You can keep your bulshit and dvell till kindom comes any way i couldn’t do much for your image after all i am just a hair stylist not a surgeont. I wish you all the bulshit you wish to me and who knows who else wrapt up in your self righteus self love.Narcistic i dont want to insult that animal we like to put on the spit you would know wich one you traveled balkans.do you catch my driftt you muppet.Natzi fashist.As for me and hair styling it ended in perfect fashion as my statment for all of you vanity driven self absorbed jokes of the human.All of you are exactly the what they mean by something wrong with the world.Underneath you are slime and inflamation if you can use your imagination.if its posibble.Now go to your ugly bitching bussines.who the hell reads crap you put in the world.Correct my speling if you can.who gives the shit any way.you where correct about that.You so perceptive.BitchDo i need to love your superficial way of killing everyone for the sake of your well beeing.One great Serbian gave you light and that stupid phone you hardly know how to use.That fucking power plant you stupid cunts use to see your fat ass tv in your idiotic oblivion and ignorance.You are evil of this world.Kids in your schools are realising that and becouse caracters like you taking justice into their own hands.Becouse they are powerless to change anything and they dont want to compromise their souls.Yes there is such thing.On your fucking dollar they say in god we trust.But obviously not in punishment by the same.Go dig your own grave becouse you are walking courpse any way.Souless shell”''Pedja the hair stylist''Well, at least after all this I got to go and bitch on my boring stupid travel site.''Read Next:''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''The Ultimate South Africa Road Trip Guide''December 5, 2017''The Day I Became a Nazi Fascist, and How My Hair Bore The Blame''was last modified:''November 11th, 2017''by''Natasha''So, it’s officially been 12 months since we quit our jobs, left our NYC apartment, and packed up for a life on the road to travel the world for a year. We had so much positive feedback detailing our first six months of travel (told by a GoPro,) that we decided to update everyone on our next six months. If you missed it, feel free to catch up and check out our''GoPro travel story from Latvia to Serbia''. We pick back up here in Serbia\xa0and finish the year at the tip of Africa. Needless to say, it’s been a fantastic year of travel.''Why all the GoPro shots? We absolutely love taking photos with our GoPro Hero 4 as we travel the world. It travels well, fits in perfectly with adventures and creativity, it’s small, and lightweight. We never leave our hotel, apartment, hostel, beach shack, yacht, or tent without it on our travels around the world. Looking for a GoPro recommendation? Check out our tips on picking the''right GoPro and GoPro accessories!''We Traveled the World for a Year with a GoPro: Here’s\xa0Our Story''We left Serbia’s capital city and hit up the countryside''Had to get back to being one with nature, so we explored this''Balkan country a little deeper''.''We couldn’t go to Skopje and not venture through Matka Canyon''Although''Skopje may be the strangest capital city in the world'', it’s beautiful in its own way.''We found tranquility on Europe’s most beautiful lake''Lake Ohrid in Macedonia''holds a special place in our heart''Then we took to paragliding over the same lake''There is no way we could miss out on soaring over Macedonia’s crown jewel''And then we figured we just couldn’t skip Albania''Seriously this country deserves so much more attention. It’s incredible!''We naturally made our way to Perast, Montenegro after''and got completely lost in the blooming wisteria that''spring brought us in Perast''We needed adventure on''Hvar'', so we rode a quad all through the island''Hvar may just be one of our''favorite islands in the world''!''Still craving an adrenaline rush, we went white water rafting in Split''You can start thinking of Croatia as an''adventure country now''And enjoyed sunsets like these in Croatia''Wondering where to go in Croatia?''Why not everywhere!?''Then we made our way to another beautiful European lake''Lake Bled. Slovenia’s famous sight\xa0is definitely''worth a few days of serenity''And we made a few friends along the way''We stopped at''Big Berry camp in the Slovenian countryside''for a bit, and never wanted to leave!''It was then time for a little R&R sailing the Mediterranean''Feeling like the little mermaid for a day is never a bad thing, right?''Not too much R&R though. Had to get a little active somewhere!''We are two twenty-somethings who just spent a week on a yacht. No,''we aren’t rich.''Jumping into the sea is always so refreshing''The perfect Olympic training center''We docked in Rhodes for a scuba lesson''It was much''less scary the second time''And took an overnight ferry to Crete and found this pink sand beach''Crete has so many beautiful beaches,''it was hard to pick a favorite!''We had to cross continents at one point''We’ve become very fond of airports''And ended up in The Seychelles on an airfare deal''It’s a hard life''this was paradise on earth''An island group''fit for a king''Every day was spent in the sunshine''Even the fish swim right up to you in The Seychelles''Can we live here?''We became friends with the zebras in Swaziland''and ended up falling in love with''the Kingdom of Swaziland''and then crossed borders into Mozambique to catch this sunset''Travel the world for a year and find''total seclusion and amazing sunsets in\xa0Mozambique''While getting up close and personal with wildlife''Have we mentioned that Mozambique is one of''top travel destinations ever?''The views never ever got old''We found so many''beautiful places and people in Mozambique''We worked with the South African rangers and tracked lions in the Western Cape''We saw more than lions though!''Read about our eco-friendly safari here!''We rode into the sunset in Free State, South Africa''We may have\xa0snapped a photo or two on top of\xa0the Drakensberg''after overcoming''complete fear in the Drakensberg''Okay, just one more photo on top of South Africa''A nerve wrecking viewpoint''We took to a little snowboarding in Lesotho''Yes, there is a slope that you can ski down in Africa!''and had one last adrenaline rush to ring in a year on the road''Bungee jumping off the highest bridge bungee in the world''Our twelfth month on the road ended in Cape Town. Here are the views from Table Mountain.''One more shout out from the tip of Africa!''I think we found the most heavenly spot in the world at Cape Point.''So what’s in store for the next six months of travel? We’ll be making our way from Cape Town up to Ethiopia. Make sure\xa0to follow along!''All shots were taken with our GoPro Hero 4 Silver, which we have NO affiliation with. You can check the latest''price for one here!''You May Also Like:''We Traveled the World for a Year with a GoPro: Here’s What Happened''was last modified:''November 5th, 2016''by''Natasha''Spending a summer on one of the many Greek islands? Lucky you. You may be wondering just what to pack for Greece. The islands are beautiful, swarming with history, and are populated with some of the friendliest people in the world. The first time we landed in Santorini we were out of our element. We were on a European backpacking trip, and little did we know how posh and romantic the island was. Now, with a couple of Greek island trips under our belt'',''we know better. Here is the ultimate list of what to pack for Greece.''What to wear in Greece''Essentials''Flip Flops:''Seriously, bring a pair of comfortable flip flops to wander around the Greek islands in. The key word here is comfortable as there will be a lot of walking involved. Yes, you could wear tennis shoes everywhere for optimal support, but Greece is a laid back place with a lot of sunshine. So you don’t want to seem too uptight or get those ugly tennis shoes and sock tan lines around your feet. I have sung praises about my''rainbow sandals''for years. Since I bought them in 2009, I have only had to get a new pair once and that was only because my first pair got stolen in Thailand. They have arch support, are comfortable,\xa0and look great.''Sunglasses:''There is a lot of sunshine\xa0on those Greek islands, especially in the summer. Make sure to bring a pair of''killer sunglasses with you.''Sunscreen:''I know I sound like a broken record…but the sun, yano. You need to protect your face with some strong sunshine. Our favorite to use is''Peak Sunscreen''because it’s eco friendly and water resistant.''Tennis shoes:''The hiking in Greece is fantastic all year round, and a good pair of tennis shoes will save your feet. My go to hiking shoes are my''Merrell Moab ventilators'', they have held up in every situation I put them through.''Swimsuit:''You’re going to Greece! A''swimsuit''is a must unless you’re on some of the famous nudist beaches. \xa0A good swimsuit always makes me feel good on the inside, I love this line of bathing suits on amazon. If you want the price to be halved, just purchase some''bottoms''– it’s perfectly acceptable to free the nipple on the beaches in Greece.''Beach Tote:''Don’t forget a''beach tote''before you go to the beach in Greece! I love''ones like these''that pack up small in your suitcase. And they hold more than you can imagine. They are also water resistant!''Wind resistant coat:''Greece gets cold too! A''good wind resistant\xa0coat''is perfect for those evening strolls along the ocean.''Electronics''Phone:''Don’t forget your phone! We always download offline maps to our phones to help us get around, and this is no exception in Greece.''Camera:''A high-quality camera is important if you want some great shots while on your Greek vacation.''I travel with my''Fujifilm X-T10''and''200mm telephoto lens'',\xa0but I’m also not afraid to take out our tiny and discrete''GoPro''whenever necessary.''Adaptor:''Greece outlets use the Europlug and I would recommend getting one before you land on''Amazon''. The price may be doubled if you show up on a Greek island in an outlet emergency.''WiFi extender:''If you just must stay connected while traveling (like us – no judgement), then a''WiFi extender''may make your life much easier and stress free. The internet isn’t the strongest, especially on those islands, so an extender will give you that extra boost you need to complete your online tasks.''Clothing''Beach Coverup:''You’ll most likely be spending a lot of time on the beaches of Greece,''so something cute''that you can just throw over top of your swimsuit will definitely come in handy.''Maxi Dresses:''A''good black maxi dress''can save any night out. Not much explanation needed here, this is Greece and people are stylish.''Active Gear:''Most days in Greece will be spent outside, and when not at the beach they may be spent hiking or doing something-something active. Be sure to bring at least one''good pair of yoga pants''as well as a quick dry tank top. Also, it’s good to note that it gets extremely HOT and HUMID on many of the islands so hiking early morning is recommended.''Other Items to Consider''Beach Towel'': Many guesthouses on the islands don’t want you bringing their towels to the beach. Make sure to have your own for those situations. Come prepared and get a''traditional Turkish towel beforehand''– or wait and purchase one in Greece!''Travel Mattress:''I don’t know what it is, but the Greeks must like hard beds. Compared to the bed comfort in America, the beds that made up our two months in Greece were less than adequate. For the serious who crave a good and comfortable nights sleep, consider traveling with the''TravelSet by Tempur-Pedic.''Here is the list of everything to pack for Greece:''Flip flops! You can’t go wrong with''Rainbow sandals''Killer sunglasses''Peak Sunscreen''is eco-friendly and water resistant.''Good walking shoes. I prefer''Merrell Moab ventilators''A''swimsuit''obviously''A nice''beach tote''A Europlug Adaptor from''Amazon''A''good wind resistant\xa0coat''WiFi extender''Beach Coverup''A''Beach Towel''A good pair of yoga pants''Don’t forget a camera! I have the''Fujifilm X-T10''and''200mm telephoto lens''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Greece''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Greece:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home in Greece we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Greece:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Greece perfectly fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet’s Greece Guide Book.''Adapter:''Remember that Greece uses the''Europlug''. Make sure you find a good adapter like the''one I have''to keep you charged. Otherwise, you may be paying for a cheap one once you land.''You May Also Like:''Affordable Yachting in the Mediterranean with MedSea Yachts''15 Greece Travel Tips You Should Know Before You Go''Around the World with Instagram: Destinations to Make You Pack Your Bags''The Ultimate List of Things to Do in Crete''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''October 29, 2016''A Year of Traveling the World: 19 Countries in Five Minutes''October 4, 2016''We Traveled the World for a Year with a GoPro: Here’s What Happened''September 26, 2016''What to Wear in Greece on Your Vacation''was last modified:''August 30th, 2017''by''Natasha''Just a 45 minute drive away from Cape Town lies one the best wine regions in the world. Of course, many travelers get caught up with names like\xa0Bordeaux, Tuscany, and Burgundy,\xa0but don’t forget\xa0about the\xa0fantastic New World wine regions in the Southern\xa0Hemisphere.''The wines around the Western Cape are just as quality and\xa0at a fraction of the cost. South Africa has many crown jewels, and the stunning Stellenbosch wine region happens to be one of them. The wine region has a rich heritage, splendid landscapes, a lively university, and of course fine restaurants paired with beautiful wine. Here is why we loved Stellenbosch so much, and some of the best things to do in Stellenbosch.''Why is Stellenbosch one of the best wine regions in the world?''The Wine''South Africa produces over 959 million liters of wine each year,''making the country the seventh-largest wine producer in the world. There are over 200 wine producers in the Stellenbosch valley\xa0contributing to that figure. I won’t claim to be a''Master Sommelier'', but I do know a good wine when I taste one. So, I was delighted to spend five days in Stellenbosch trying out some seriously delicious wine. \xa0Stellenbosch is seated at the base of the Cape Fold mountains, which provides the rich soil needed for their exquisite wines. They also have that whole Mediterranean climate thing going for them, with hot dry summers and cool wet winters making for well-seasoned\xa0grapes with good character. Stellenbosch’s signal variety is their Pinotage wine, that gives consumers earthy and smokey flavors with a deep red color. It will be hard to avoid Pinotage on any trip to Stellenbosch.''The People''It must be something in the wine because the people in Stellenbosch take hospitality to a new level. We went on a plethora of wine and vineyard tours, and at each establishment, we were met with a friendly\xa0smile.''The Transport''Whether you have access to a vehicle of your own or not, it’s very easy to get around Stellenbosch. I know it sounds massive with over 200 wineries; however, they are spaced close together and are all within 10 minutes of each other. For those without a car,''Vine Hoppers'', offers a “hop on hop off” experience with all the major vineyards in route – no need for any DD!''Uber''is also prevalent in Stellenbosch and makes for an easy and affordable option to get from point A to point B. While Stellenbosch’s''proximity to Cape Town'', only 40 km away, makes it a great day trip destination.''The Region''I mentioned before that Stellenbosch is located at the foot of the mountains surrounding it. So when it is decided\xa0that enough wine is enough, there is always a spectacular\xa0mountain to be hiked!''The Cost''Anyone coming from North America, Australia, or Europe can be prepared for an exceptionally good time in Stellenbosch. The cost for a glass or bottle of wine is more affordable than a daily cappuccino at Starbucks. A glass of red wine will cost all of $3 at a restaurant, or go big and get a bottle for $6. Yes, I’m serious, even the fine\xa0wines here are cheap in comparison to America.''R135=$9.50 at the time of writing this. And that’s the fancy stuff!''Things to do in Stellenbosch''It’s hard to pinpoint exact favorites as the whole region is fantastic, but for my fellow winos an outdoor enthusiast out there here are some of my favorite things to do in Stellenbosch.''Go on a wine and food pairing extravaganza''This isn’t the land of wine and cheese pairings, this is the land of''everything''pairings. Wine and biltong? Check. Wine and salt? Of course. Wine and cupcakes? Definitely! Try searching around for any food type that may suit your fancy here. Or read about our''six favorite wine and food pairing options''in South Africa.''Enjoy a night at one of South Africa’s finest restaurants.''For a taste of luxury then a visit to''Delaire Graff Estate''is a must. The whole property overlooks the Stellenbosch valley providing absolutely breathtaking views. At $1000/night a stay at Delaire Graff may not be viable for some, but a night out at the world-class restaurant Indochine is! For $50, diners can experience a fantastic seven course Asian infused dining experience.''If you’re not in the mood for a complete seven-course meal then we found great quality food at''Makaron Restaurant''. Makaron Restaurant is part of the Majeka House right off\xa0Houtkapper Street. They have a fantastic three-course wine pairing every night from 6:30pm-8:30pm set in their cozy yet modern restaurant. The menu changes every night but we assure you that you won’t leave disappointed. We had an awesome meal here kicked off with beef tartare, followed by slow braised lamb, and finished with vanilla creme brulee.''Take a Walking Tour of Kayamandi''Kayamandi is a developing township in the Stellenbosch area. The township is massive with over 5000 inhabitants,\xa0but don’t let that intimidate you! The people are friendly and inviting, and the township is buzzing with energy. We went on a walking tour with''African Experience''and it was interesting to see the other side of Stellenbosch and get a glimpse at township life in South Africa. Afterward enjoy a traditional meal at Nokawe.\xa0But come hungry, our wonderful host Nokawe, makes enough food for a football team on Thanksgiving.''Work on that wine waistline and go biking''After just a day of delicious food and wine, we desperately needed a workout. We decided to hit the town with''Adventure Shop Stellenbosch''on a historical bike tour around Stellenbosch.''Tour a vineyard on two wheels''I had always thought that Segways were a little nerdy, however after our tour of Spier farm with''Segway Spier''I have a new found love for the personal transporter. We took to the paths and got lost through the rolling, organic farms of Spier without breaking a sweat.''Enjoy the downtown area''When you don’t want to do anything but relax, downtown Stellenbosch area is the perfect place for that. There are numerous cafes to pop in and out of, a lovely promenade, and the\xa0Stellenbosch University Botanical Garden. The botanical garden is free to the public and a good place to come for those looking to escape the noise and be among nature.''Stay Authentic While in Stellenbosch''We called the peaceful''Rozendal Farm''home for a few days while we explored the Winelands. Auberge Rozendal is conveniently located just outside of Stellenbosch town in the forested slopes of the Jonkershoek Valley. \xa0The farm is family owned and has\xa016 quaint rooms with a large patio facing the surrounding mountains.''Breakfast at Rozendal was our favorite part of waking up each day. The farm is all organic so we were treated with fresh eggs, fruit, and vegetables every morning. Usually, we are in a rush to finish breakfast, but we never wanted to leave here as the firewood cracked in the large fireplace.''As if a quiet farm stay and organic food weren’t enough, Rozendal is home to award-winning vinegar.\xa0Visitors and overnight guests can take part in their daily vinegar tasting tour where everyone can try their signature Hibiscus,\xa0Fynbos, Green Tea, and Lavender vinegar. We decided to go home with the Hibiscus, which won the Best Vinegar at the SOFI Awards.''This South African wine region was a great place to kick back, relax, and get a tiny bit drunk on some fantastic wine''after a week on safari''. Whether you have a day or a week, Stellenbosch will not disappoint!''Plan Your Trip to Stellenbosch''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''You May Also Like''20 Things to Know Before Going to South Africa''Buying a Car in South Africa and Being Undesirable''Six Must See Places In South Africa''Best Place To Go On Safari In Southern Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Six Fantastic Things to do in Stellenbosch, South Africa''was last modified:''November 30th, 2017''by''Natasha''The Drakensberg mountains in South Africa are\xa0a destination not to be missed. They can be found\xa0in all sorts of nature documentaries and travel books about Africa. Dramatic, weathered, and mysterious the Drakensberg conjures up the imagination. They culminate at their highest with the Drakensberg Amphitheater. One of the most photogenic natural landmarks in the world. For us, traveling to them became a necessity as we drove through South Africa. What lay ahead of us in the Drakensberg region was Lesotho, country lodges, national parks, and small towns to steal our\xa0hearts away. The\xa0region is an outdoor enthusiast’s dream destination. We spent two weeks in the Drakensberg and Lesotho and felt that it was not nearly enough time for this part of the world. Maybe we’re just mountain people, then again the Mozambican beaches still beckon us to return.''Where are the Drakensberg Mountains?''The Drakensberg mountains primarily refer to the Northeastern section of the Drakensberg escarpment. A long range of mountains that mark\xa0the beginning of a plateau that becomes the vast plains\xa0of South Africa. Here the mountain peaks soar up towards the sky and drop in dramatic cliff faces. It is one of the most notable features of Africa and both a cultural and natural world heritage site declared by UNESCO. However, the most popular section of the range refers to its northeasterly section.\xa0This Northeastern section borders and stretches into Lesotho, a landlocked nation within South Africa, that lies almost entirely within the Drakensberg Mountain Range. Here you can find the highest peaks, the Drakensberg Amphitheater, and the Golden Gate Highlands National Park.''The Mountain Range formed around 200 million years ago during the separation of the supercontinent Gondwana.''{We also visited and Eco camp at Gondwana Game Reserve}''.\xa0Here the beginnings of the Atlantic and Indian oceans formed which deposited soft rock and sediment at the bases of the mountains. Over millions of years, the mountains with no volcanic or seismic activity the bases of the mountains slowly eroded away leaving high plateaus on the mountain tops.''{''Read more about the formation of the Drakensberg formation here…''}''Mysterious, Grand, and Dramatic''The mountains have two names. The Drakensberg mountain’s name comes from the first Voortrekkers Afrikaans settlers to the region, in reference to the image of sleeping dragons the mountains gave off. While, the Zulu referred to them as the uKhuhlamba or a barrier of spears. When standing at the base of these monsters it is not hard to understand where the names come from. The journey up to the base of the mountains is a series of rolling plains. From the plains rise the peaks and valleys of the Drakensberg. Sheer cliffs rising from straight out of the earth up towards the sky for a 1200m. It is here the largest cliff face in the world exists, at three times the size of the famous''El Capitan''. It is an unparalleled formation on the face of the earth.''Where to take in the views?''We used three\xa0bases to explore the Drakensberg allowing us to gain access to both the eastern and western sides of the mountain range. With a crowning feature such as the Amphitheater we knew we’d need to stay in a place with views of the landmark and good access. We came across the perfect mountain retreat, a four-star property to explore this section of the world called\xa0Montusi Mountain Lodge.''A\xa0B&B at one of South Africa’s finest small towns, Clarens. A charming town filled local\xa0art, made for a base to snowboard and explore the Golden Gate Highlands National Park. Add to that a cultural journey into the Mountain Kingdom of Lesotho and we had the makings of a memorable mountain experience in South Africa.''Read More:''{''How You Can Save on Accommodation''}''Montusi Mountain Lodge''Montusi Mountain Lodge''is\xa0a four-star lodge built\xa0to take in\xa0the beauty of the region. When we checked into Montusi it met every expectation we had in mind for a proper mountain getaway. The lodge is\xa0set\xa0on a hill that provides uninterrupted views of the Drakensberg from almost anywhere on the grounds. It is\xa0a mountain lodge from our dreams with horses roaming freely, rolling fields, beautiful grounds, flyfishing, hiking trails, and wildlife. Arrival here is often done\xa0by one of the family members, as it is a property that has been passed down through generations. The family management\xa0allows for a personal touch that is clearly evident upon arrival. There is\xa0no cold formulaic welcome at Montusi. We spent three nights at Montusi and never even ventured off the property due to its beauty, staff, and a plethora of activities.''The main building consists of a reception, dining room, terrace, bar, lounge, and even a massage treatment room. Here we could play a game of pool, read a new book by the fireplace, or have\xa0a beer and take in the mountains. All of which, we took full advantage of including an''attempt''at a round of tennis on their personal courts. A stay at Montusi also includes dinner and breakfast. The lodge offers wonderful dining with tasty\xa0local cuisine in the form of a three-course meal. A personal favorite of mine was the kudu for dinner one night. The\xa0personal chalets offered at Montusi have\xa0views of the amphitheater from the\xa0bed, a heated bathroom floor, patio, and a fireplace. Each room is free standing allowing for complete privacy to relax in the tranquil\xa0atmosphere. It’s the sort of room that was difficult to leave, and that we could even live in. A perfect place to make a fresh cup of coffee and take in the Drakensberg Mountains.''A Good Morning View To Die For''After a good nights rest on the peaceful grounds, guests wake up to stunning views of the Drakensberg Amphitheater. Making use of the french press guests can\xa0set out to enjoy\xa0the view with a cup of coffee and one of Montusi’s comfy robes. Seriously, their robes are the best we’ve had in a hotel room. \xa0Little touches like new''magazine copies of Getaway'', a new favorite of ours, are sitting in the lounge of the room and are perfect\xa0some light morning reading.''Did we mention the comfy bathrobes?''Mountain Serenity''There are plenty of hikes and activities to keep active, but we made sure\xa0to relax with a good book. A place like Montusi is the perfect place to do nothing at all. Guests can relax poolside, sit by the fire, or chose from any number of places with a view.''Hikes and Horseback in the Drakensberg''With an estate the size of Montusi, it provides some nice luxuries to explore the plains leading up to the Drakensberg. They have a number of hiking trails on the property and offer an awesome hiking map\xa0at the lodge that proves as a nice guide for those looking to explore on their own. A guided hike is also offered every day at 9:30 a.m. We set out one day to find some of the famous''Bushmen paintings''that can be found throughout southern Africa. Bushmen, or San people, were some of the earliest inhabitants of Southern Africa and can still be found today in small pockets. \xa0Just a hop away from the guest rooms is a cave that is home to\xa0three known bushmen paintings, and it was the first ones we had come to find in South Africa.''A major highlight of Montusi is\xa0their stable of horses. They are one of the few lodges in the area with stables offering horseback rides for various levels of riders to explore their grounds while taking in views of the Drakensberg. Ever since visiting Cappadocia in Turkey, Tasha had been itching to go on a horseback ride. We found the only other place in the world that could compete with Cappadocia for surreal beauty are the Drakensberg Mountains in South Africa.''From on top of a horse the landscapes natural beauty only improves. The horses also allow the ability to wander the grounds in a less intrusive way, we easily approached a herd of eland, who seemed to pay us no mind. It was one of our favorite experiences of our tour of South Africa and something we can heartily recommend to anyone in the area.''{''Check the rates for Montusi here''!}''All Out Adventure''On the property adjacent\xa0to Montusi is more or less it’s “sister” company. A company started by one of the daughters and her husband. They offer a wide variety of adventure activities to explore the area. So, if doing nothing isn’t your cup of tea then this will be the place to head. At''All Out Adventure''you can play paintball, ride a quad, try your hand at the trapeze, brave the trails on bike, or zipline through the air.''Climbing the Amphitheater From Sentinel Car Park''Climbing to the top of the Amphitheater was high on our list of things to do. The peak, Mont-aux-Sources, is the source of the Tugela River and the lies at 3,282 above sea level. The hike is strenuous and not for the faint of heart. It moves over some challenging terrain and finishes with two chain ladders to reach the plateau on top of the amphitheater. You can see some of our photos and video below to get an idea of the hike up. The car park involves a 7km dirt road, that at the time of trip was under construction and may one day be drivable by a car; but for now, it requires a vehicle\xa0with decent clearance. We braved the journey by ourselves, but the Montusi Mountain Lodge can arrange a hike up. There are many other operators in the area who will also arrange a guided hike up the mountain. The parking lot is managed by a''local lodge'', and they can arrange for a drive up to the car park from their reception should your vehicle not be up to par.''Scariest seat I’ve ever sat in.''The final ascent up to the top of mountain plateau involves two chain ladders up the mountain face. It is nerve-racking, but ultimately worth the effort (just hang on). Once at the top you can relax and take in the view, which might take your breath away again. All together the hike takes about five to six hours, so plan and pack accordingly. It’s best to start the hike in the morning, there is a serious danger in descending at night here.''This is where many will turn around.''Tugela Falls''From the peak, you can walk along the plateau towards its center most point to find the Tugela Falls. It is here the modest beginnings of the Tugela river come crashing down 948m to the base of the amphitheater. It is arguably the tallest single falls in the world, but for now, we’ll say it’s number two behind Angel Falls in Venezuela. You can catch some glimpses of the falls in our video.''It’s flat up top!''Clarens: The Best Small Town In South Africa''We’d read in a guide that''Clarens was one of the best small towns''in South Africa and we set our sights on it. Clarens, nicknamed “The Jewel Of The Free State,” is a small town next to the Golden Gate Highlands National Park. It\xa0is a busy tourism hub for the region. Its center square is dotted\xa0with restaurants, unique shops, art galleries, a brewery, and coffee shop. Its charm is apparent when you first drive down the central drag. Filled with guesthouses and one Protea\xa0Hotel {''Check Rates Here!''} the town retains its atmosphere\xa0despite being a hub for tourism. It’s proximity to the park is certain to draw crowds, looking for the perfect base to explore the unique national park.''Where to eat in Clarens:''The Courtyard Cafe'': A big outdoor seating area\xa0and a small shop serving up some local artisan products from South Africa make for the perfect breakfast spot or lunch. A bakery with good baked products, sandwiches, charcuterie, and coffee.''Highland Coffee Roastery'': What would be the perfect art town without a great coffee shop? We loved the coffee menu here and even bought some of the coffee they roast in the shop.''Clementines'': Clementines is set just off the main street, but is more or less the restaurant to have a meal out when in Clarens.''Clarens Brewery'': That’s right, even in a small South African mountain town you can now find a craft brewery. We enjoyed a cold beer here on a warm afternoon. Perfect end to a day of hiking – they do close early (around 7 pm) though so don’t wait.''Accommodation in\xa0Clarens:''Protea Hotel Clarens'': A well run modern hotel with all of the necessities for any style of traveler. {''Check Rates Here!''}''Eddies Guest House'': We spent two lovely nights with Eddie. A small well run guesthouse offering everything you could ask for. Views from the room, kitchenette, heated blankets, and a fireplace were big sells for us. We stayed in the Santa room. {''Check Rates Here!''}''Golden Gate National Park''The rolling hills and brilliant colors given off by the Maluti Mountains in Golden Gate Highlands National Park are sure to wow. The park specializes in some of the most brilliant hikes, drives, and sunsets in South Africa. There is no big game in this national park and visitors are able to roam around freely partaking in all sorts of outdoor sports such as hiking, mountain biking, rock climbing, and canoeing. {''Find out more about the park here.''}''{''Read more about a\xa0great small town we visited,\xa0Zakopane, Poland…''}''The Kingdom in the Sky''Lesotho was a country that many seem to give a skip, but we found ourselves wishing for more time. The country is staggeringly gorgeous and a remote destination. Here you won’t find tour buses of people, large hotels, lodges, or really much of any infrastructure. However, the infrastructure in the capital is improving and the lack of the other is all the more appealing. Here it is just the visitor and the unspoiled Basotho culture. The Basotho are the predominant culture of Lesotho and were driven up into their remote mountain hamlet by the Zulu. Here, they brave the harsh winters and mountain conditions. Lesotho is a fierce\xa0country, but fiercely beautiful and immensely rewarding.''Snowboarding and Skiing in Africa at Afriski''That’s right! You can ski and snowboard in Africa! The Afriski resort in Lesotho is one of the few\xa0places you can take a lift up and ski down some fresh powder in Africa. It’s very well run resort with a full bar, restaurant, shop, snow tubing, and ski school that will make you feel like you’re in Switzerland. They offer a number of chalets, a hotel, and even a backpackers hostel for accommodation. However, the season is short and space can go quick, so make sure to book well in advance. We had a blast\xa0tearing it up on the slopes for a day. The resort also runs year round making a great base for hiking and mountain biking. Learn more''about Afriski here''!''Maletsunyane Falls''We specifically traveled back into Lesotho in order to see these falls. It cost us a few days of driving, but we’d do it again in a heartbeat. Up until recently, they were seldom traveled, despite their beauty. It was only until recently the Chinese repaved the roads going in the direction of the falls, making them more accessible. We spent an entire day venturing out to this spot. Upon our arrival, we found absolutely no one asides from a few boys minding a herd of sheep and ponies.''Lost in the Drakensberg''We found this region of the world to be so unique. We could have spent months here. Wandering through more quaint towns, dining at local watering holes, and shopping in lovely art galleries are just a few ways to pass time. Or we could have spent\xa0more time mountain serenity taking in the views from a comfortable distance at Montusi Mountain Lodge. Or trekking along single lane tracks that hug dangerous cliffs. Or catching our thrills from horseback, on a snowboard, or a quad. The Drakensberg mountains in South Africa and Lesotho are a place that take\xa0quality time with an endless amount of activities.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0South Africa:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in South Africa:''Cape Town'',''Johannesburg'',''Knysna'', and''Stellenbosch''.''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in South Africa:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Thank you to Montusi Mountain Lodge for hosting our stay, as always all opinions are our own.''Looking for more advice on the Drakensberg Mountains? Leave a comment below!''You May Also Enjoy''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Drakensberg Mountains: An Escape in South Africa''was last modified:''November 29th, 2017''by''Cameron''Another year, another birthday. As my 27th year of existence creeps around the corner, I think about how rewarding and memorable my past birthdays have been. Of course, I love spending time with\xa0family and friends, going out to dinner to have the waiters sing me a tune, and being around familiar landscapes each year. However, it is my birthdays abroad that are the most special to me. It will be my third time spending a birthday abroad this year with hopefully\xa0many\xa0more to come. Before you stress about plans and friends, let me try to ease your nerves for spending a birthday abroad.''Choose Your Destination and Book Your Flight''The first step in planning a birthday abroad is choosing the lucky destination. First narrowing down with the continent you want to go to and then picking the actual country! For Americans, Europe may seem like the easy choice because of its proximity to North America. I spent one of my birthdays abroad in Paris, and it was magical to ring in a birthday dancing around the Eiffel Tower. Once you have narrowed down your destination, you obviously have to book a flight there.''{''Make sure to score a good hotel room too!''}''Figure Out the Transport''Once you land in your destination country, you will have to figure out how to get around. My dream destination for my next birthday is Italy. I love the culture, the cappuccinos, and the scenery, and of course gorging on authentic pasta to celebrate my older age just sounds divine. My favorite app for getting around countries in Europe is''GoEuro''. GoEuro conveniently lets you compare all the flight, bus, and train options — a must when trying to figure out plans easily.''Read More:''{''15 Things to Know Before Going to Italy''}''Settle on Dinner Reservations''If you’re a total foodie like me\xa0then chances are you will probably want to eat some delicious food on your birthday. Popular restaurants abroad can fill up fast, so it’s important to make reservations beforehand. Don’t know where to eat? Try asking the locals where the best restaurants are in your area, for they will be real and truthful to you. When in doubt then scout out each restaurant and find the one with the most locals and no “tourist menus.”''Read More:''{''A Guide to Tipping Across Europe}''Make Some Friends!''No one wants to spend their birthday alone! Whether you’re in a new city or traveling solo, it’s easy to round up some traveling buddies and grab birthday drinks. When I travel alone my best bet at making new acquaintances\xa0is a hostel, where like-minded travel-loving people like myself hang out. If you’re not really a hostel person, try posting online in Facebook groups or use sites like''Meetup''to organize an outing. Even if you’re celebrating your birthday with a significant\xa0other or best friend, it’s always nice to invite some newbies into the group.''Read More:''{''Why Staying at a Hostel is the Worst''}''Whether your birthday is just around the corner or a year away, it’s never a bad idea to start planning your birthday abroad. From Helsinki to Venice, a birthday overseas is sure to be a memorable one!''Celebrate a Birthday Abroad in Europe''was last modified:''November 1st, 2016''by''Natasha''There’s probably no better city for music fans than Nashville, TN. However, that’s not all there is to this eclectic Southern city. There’s a hippy edgy side. Millennials\xa0continue to move to the city in search of an area that’s cheaper than NYC or LA but has just as much to offer in entertainment. Nashville’s booming neighborhoods now have third-wave coffee shops, co-working spaces, craft breweries, artisanal markets, and restaurants. However, Nashville hasn’t lost any of its country charms, still featuring plenty of places to catch a live show or eat some of the cities’\xa0famous hot-chicken. It’s no wonder that\xa0my sister now lives in the country music capital of the world.''Southern Comfort Food''If you’re looking for some of that famous southern comfort food, then Nashville is definitely going to give you your fill and then some. Grab a few pieces of hot chicken at''Prince’s Hot Chicken'',''which is a famous business in the area\xa0that’s credited with the original recipe. Or track down some of the best biscuits in the world at''Loveless Cafe'',''located just outside of the city.''Grand Ole Opry''This is a destination in and of itself. The''Grand Ole Opry''is a vanguard of Nashville and country music. Visitors can catch a show or take a backstage tour to learn about some of its history.''Be a Hipster''What do a bowling alley, a coffee shop, a pool, a restaurant, a park, and a co-working space have in common?''Pinewood Social''rolls these things into one. So in one day, you can have your morning cup of joe, conduct a business meeting, play bocce ball, get a tan by the pool, enjoy dinner, and then meet some friends for drinks and bowling. If this all sounds like too much, head to any number of trendy coffee shops, restaurants, art galleries, or bakeries that dot the city.''Travel to Athens!''That’s right: you can take a trip to Athens in Nashville. It’s likely you’ve already seen the photos before, but Nashville is home to a full-scale''replica of the Parthenon''. It even houses a 42-ft statue of Athena, just as the original would have.''Enjoy a Honky-Tonk''You can’t visit Nashville and avoid country music. Go to any of the bars along Broadway, where you’ll find people looking for some great country music and dance. A great suggestion for good local music is''Robert’s Western World''or the''Bluebird Cafe''.''There’s a lot more to Nashville than theses five things, but if you’re pressed for time, this should do. Just don’t forget to relax. Nashville may have a lot, but things here are casual and fun.''Five Must Do Things In Nashville''was last modified:''November 2nd, 2017''by''Cameron''We pulled into Gondwana Game Reserve, eager and ready for our week at their new tented eco-camp to\xa0experience ecotourism in South Africa. We had only done one''self-drive safari through Kruger National Park''and were more than ready to see more giraffes, buffalo, and (maybe) even the elusive cheetah in South Africa.''We pulled into the main reception area of Gondwana, where a stunning lodge awaited us with a pool and high-speed WiFi. “This can’t be right,” we thought.''Then appeared Brendan, a ranger that completely fit the part of a hardcore South African conservationist. He informed us that we would be out of civilization soon – away from any 3G connection and roaming free with the caracals and antelope. Perfect.''Our group made our way into the South African bush, and within about five minutes drive there was not a soul or signal in sight. We continued driving through the''Gondwana Nature Reserve''surrounded by rolling hills, high mountains, and colorful singing birds. The sound would become our serenity for the next week in the stunning valleys below.''Gondwana Game Reserve’s Tented Eco Camp''Before we got to this''Africa eco-camp''we were warned that “It wouldn’t exactly be luxurious.” Well, we aren’t the most luxurious of people, so we knew this wouldn’t be a problem for us – and went in with an open mind. However, when we pulled up to eco camp in our 10 seater Range Rover we found the whole area to be quite impressive. Our rooms were large open tents with comfy beds, hot showers equipped with luxury\xa0shampoo, body wash, and even conditioner, and topped off with heated blankets for those cold bush nights. Oh, and that was just the personal tents! The main tent where all communal activities happened showcased a stylish rustic bar, large kitchen, and an incredibly comfy lounging area. That I may have fallen asleep in a handful of times. We had been glamping before, but not in the African bush. Stepping into eco camp felt like we had been instantly cast in the next great African documentary. It was hard to believe this reserve was only four hours away from Cape Town and along the beautiful garden route.''The camp is run by two die-hard conservationists, Brendan and Stevie, who work together as an amazing team to give everyone an authentic experience in nature. They truly are making the eco camp one of the most memorable ecotourism lodges in South Africa\xa0 Each night we would gather around the fire and share stories among the group stargazing at the milky way.''The Conservation''So, I guess I should mention why were so drawn to Gondwana’s Tented Eco Camp in the first place. We had been on a traditional safari in South Africa but longed for more. We wanted to feel more involved, that we were going beyond the traditional tourist role\xa0– and that’s what eco camp provides.''It’s apparent that almost everyone involved with Gondwana is passionate about conservation and is a shining example of ecotourism in South Africa. Everyone’s goals are to allow the wildlife to live freely without human intervention. You won’t find mass amounts of elephants, lions, or giraffes at Gondwana. There simply isn’t enough space for all those wild animals and it’s important to slowly introduce new species to an area to see if they flourish naturally.\xa0The land is fertile with minimal human impact and is looked after closely by the rangers and environmentalist.''All of this takes work to establish and maintain, and when staying at the eco camp, you actually are involved in the maintenance and upkeep of it all. Whether there are guests there or not, the team operates business as usual. So, we actually had the opportunity\xa0to be a part of the conservation, that they are a part of every day. We got to live the life of a ranger.''A Day at Eco Camp''Every day at eco camp is different, yet there are things that can also be expected. We made friends with our wonderful open safari vehicle, which we came to learn could get us out of any sticky, nerve-wracking situation.\xa0Much of the action is seen from the comforts of our reliable vehicle(and that is where I prefer to keep it, don’t want any lions coming to say hello at camp!) Before you go,''check out what to wear in Africa!''Each day involved a new conservation project that are a part of the\xa0rangers daily duties. Here eco campers got to experience the jobs at hand. There is almost always a wildlife sighting, but from a different point of view than a typical safari. No driving maniacally trying to check off every animal, nor are there any time limits at each stop. When we saw an antelope, cape mountain zebra, or a buffalo we simply observed and enjoyed their presence. Eco campers pretty much have the entire valley to themselves, and that was the beauty of seeing the wildlife from a conservationist perspective rather than a typical safari.''A typical day at eco camp went something like this:''7 a.m. Wake up to the sound of Brendan blowing in the Kudu horn followed by hot coffee and a hearty breakfast.''8 a.m. Morning game drives activity''12 p.m. Another hearty lunch with the group''1:30 p.m. Downtime to read, drink coffee, relax in the hammock, or swim in the pool (too cold for us in winter).''3 p.m. Afternoon game drive and conservation activity''5 p.m. A sundowner in one of the most beautiful valleys in the world''6 p.m. – 10 p.m. Dinner, followed by drinks by the fire and stargazing in the African bush''Ecotourism in South Africa''I mention conservation quite a bit when it comes to eco camp and their positive impact on sustainable ecotourism in South Africa. It’s hard to grasp the amount of love and work that goes into protecting a reserve in Africa, but after our week we were able to gain a bit more of insight. Within the first hour of being at eco camp, the group was out and about on our first mission.''Most people get excited about the lions, the rhinos, and the elephants when on safari – but what about the little guys? That’s what I get most excited for. The wild cats, honey badgers, and jackals are so much harder to see, so it is a much more rewarding experience when spotted!''The Genet at Night''So, we went into the forests and placed four motion sensor infrared cameras in hidden spots in hopes to catch footage of a caracal, leopard, or whatever else we could! After the week was up we would go around and collect the footage in hopes to see something awesome.''We managed to get a plethora of “blowing bush” photos, but among them were also photos of zebra, antelope, and then came the''awesome honey badger''.''See the honey badger down on the left?''Gondwana Game Reserve has three lions on the property – two lionesses and one male lion. The issue with having only three on an 11,000-hectare property is that they are often hard to locate. It’s important to know where the lions are as I don’t think guests come to Gondwana to become lion meat. \xa0That’s where the eco team comes to the rescue. With a radio\xa0transmitter, eco campers are able to drive the whole property and pick up the lions signal. After a few hours of searching, we heard a blissful “beep” letting us know the lions were close by and able to alert the rest of Gondwana of the location they were in. Now you may think, “okay but they will just move tomorrow.”''Actually, lions are just like house cats – only big, ferocious, and with sharp teeth. In other words, they are quite lazy creatures and chances are they won’t move far or fast unless they are hungry. This kind of game monitoring and tracking is fundamental in a private reserve like Gondwana so that a balanced ecosystem is maintained and also to help keep track of the wildlife populations and any behavior changes.''There is more to an ecosystem than the animals, and it all starts with the water. Every week the eco camp team travels around to the many bodies of water to''conduct a MiniSASS''. MiniSASS is a tool used to measure the health of a body of water. By locating and analyzing the different species in the water, we are able to tell how healthy it is. This was my favorite task as I love the little guys, the ones that were around in the prehistoric ages and still provide our world life.''Cameron’s favorite activity at eco camp was actually the next day – as a wattle destroyer. Wattle is an''invasive plant''species originating from Australia and can completely take over an ecosystem. One morning here was spent acting like lumberjacks cutting down some of the wattles\xa0in the valley. This is done daily by teams of men and machines working to ensure a thriving and diverse plant species; however, small the footprint the eco campers actively clear it still does not go unnoticed.''Looks pretty – but it’s actually wattle''If there is one thing that is more amazing than the African mammals it’s the incredible bird life across the continent. The Western Cape is home to a wide\xa0variety of bird species, from the cape sugarbird to the bokmakierie. Each and every bird species has distinct characteristics that make birding so fun. We had never been birding, but after spending an entire day driving around the reserve and searching for the beautifully colored winged animals we have become hooked. Our group fell so in love with searching for and distinguishing birds that we managed to find 40 different birds in one day! Of course, this is not only fun, but it helps Gondwana keep track of the distribution and movement of species that fly free on their land.''Needless to say in between all these activities there was a lot of safari time. Questions poured out of us and onto our guide as we drove through Gondwana every day. Each day it became our task to track and count the game. Eland, zebra, wildebeest, impala – all must be counted. After the counting, we could observe the wildlife at a distance that we had never been able to before. It’s more than just counting numbers too, by monitoring how these species flourish (or sadly fail) at Gondwana we are able to assess the populations of the animals\xa0in the reserve. From these population numbers it can be determined who can be\xa0introduced, removed, and added. It is a balancing act since the original species make up of the region is relatively unknown, other than some hunting records from the original settlers.''Have You Heard of the Fynbos?''The Western Cape of South Africa is the only place in the world home to the incredible fynbos. If you have been to this area of the globe I’m sure you have heard about it from South Africans. The''fynbos is a small region\xa0of shrubland''vegetation and has a high degree of biodiversity, making it extremely important to the ecosystem here at Gondwana. The fynbos occupies its own floral kingdom and is the smallest of the six floral kingdoms. Getting to know this kingdom that is only located in a small area\xa0of the world was incredible and would thrill any naturalist.''Being with the same ranger for the entire week allowed him time explain\xa0the colorful, unique, and impressive flora that often gets overlooked on a game drive. From Buchu to Protea,\xa0eco campers could smell the fresh vegetation that surrounded us. We even picked the leaves for excellent bush tea every night. Talk about taking out the middleman in the health stores for our tea time!''The Most Peaceful Safari Experience in Africa''No hoards of cars, no constant shutters from the camera, no checking emails. That’s what we loved most about our time at Gondwana’s Tented Eco Camp. The peacefulness and seclusion of staying in the middle of the valley with no one around, but the wildlife is a part of Africa everyone should experience. To wake up every day and know that your work with the rangers actually makes a difference to the life on the reserve is exceptionally rewarding. Don’t get me wrong, we love a safari of any kind, but contributing to the conservation efforts of South Africa makes a small, but important dent in the effort to save our world.''Check out what to wear on safari!''The camp may be luxurious and packed with adventure, and alarm bells may be going off that this means''expensive''. I was pleased to find out that this whole 5-night adventure can be experienced for less than $1000. That’s hearty South African meals, guided and informative game drives, and an Afri-chic\xa0room for less than one night on some of the more exclusive lodges in Africa. You can find our more about''Gondwana’s tented eco-camp here''and how they are one of the top ecotourism destinations in South Africa. Africa Geographic ventured to the tented eco-camp as well,''read about their experience''.''Plan Your Full Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0South Africa:''Booking.com''has over\xa05,000 properties in South Africa\xa0including hotels, apartments, and guesthouses. You get free cancellation on certain rooms and a best price guarantee. We have a Genius account and it saves us 10% on eligible bookings. Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in South Africa:''Cape Town'',''Johannesburg'',''Knysna'', and''Stellenbosch''.''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Skyscanner''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Car Rental in South Africa:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Thank you to Gondwana Game Reserve for this experience, as always all opinions are our own.''Have You Been on a Safari Before? What Was Your Favorite Part?''You May Also Like:''How Ecotourism in South Africa is Implemented at Gondwana Game Reserve''was last modified:''August 12th, 2017''by''Natasha''Strangers and friends\xa0often ask about our favorite destinations from our experiences traveling around the world. It’s a question that is always difficult, and we won’t ever\xa0have an answer, but there are countries and places that stand out. Mozambique is a standout. Our holiday in Mozambique was made even more special with our stay at Travessia Beach Lodge.''Travessia Beach Lodge''Most journeys through Mozambique will involve traveling along the N1 – the only highway and paved road for much of the country that extends up along the coast. A turn off of the familiar highway in Mozambique leads into rows and rows of palm trees and deep sand roads. It’s the sort of thing that would turn away those who are looking for a packaged vacation in Mauritius or Mexico. However, it adds to the exoticism, romance, and beauty of the destination, Travessia Beach Lodge. It was late in the day by the time we had arrived after snaking through the sandy roads to the main lodge. We were greeted by the amazing staff here who brave the Mozambican bush to maintain the remote beach destination. The lodge itself was brought to fruition by some passionate expats\xa0who appreciate what an incredible spot in the world it is. After several years of paperwork and construction, Travessia became the perfect destination for a holiday in Mozambique. For us, it was five days with no shoes, coconut waters, and relaxation.''{''Read more about our journey through Southern Mozambique…''}''Amongst\xa0The Palm Trees''If this is where tourism is headed then we are fans. Travessia Beach Lodge was built right into the sand dunes with the goal of being very low impact. No bulldozing over the former landscape to build some big concrete structure to pack tourists in like sardines. Here it is the guest, birds, sea breeze, and ocean vibes. The main lodge is open to its environment with a thatched ceiling, colorful furniture, and a view out to the ocean. Featuring a restaurant, pool, bar, some super awesome chairs to kick back in, and the best setting you could ask for it’s the sort of place you need spend some time with.''We Wanted To Move In''Our “room” was a “casa” or tent on a platform surrounded by flowers and trees. Great views awaited us each morning while we drank our ever so important first cup of coffee. Waking up with fresh coffee and a hammock to laze about in is certainly a way to live. We spent a lot of time relaxing in our room and reading while listening to the tropical birds and crashing ocean waves –''tranquility''. The best feature of our room? The view from our outdoor shower was a crowning feature. At night in Mozambique, the milky way splashed across the sky and the stars became innumerable. Stargazing under piping hot water is new pass-time for us in Africa.''Smile!''Maybe it’s something in the delicious seafood, but the staff at Travessia Beach Lodge are all smiles. It’s that Mozambican flair, friendly as can be. You’ll come to learn their names quickly and there is never a dull moment with them. Whether it was dropping off morning coffee, climbing the palm trees for fresh coconuts, or showcasing our dinner we were always met with a smile and a willingness to engage with us.''A Special Place''In normal environments, we often rave about the city or how much there is to do. With a holiday in Mozambique, it is about complete relaxation. It is about enjoying the beauty of nature and the serene coast. Travessia has worked to engage and support the community that surrounds it. Providing the villages with wells, schools, and even supplies such as solar panels. \xa0A unique selling point Travessia offers is a walk through the local villages allowing visitors to get a true look at what life is like in rural Mozambique.''We Love Sustainability''Lodge owners in this country are often passionate about the environment. To build a lodge in a difficult location requires the passion for the beauty that it holds and will sustain. Add to the fact that there was no grid nearby, Travessia had no option, but to be self-sufficient. Power is run almost entirely on solar power asides from the few cloudy days that the area brings. The details have clearly been thought out and hot water comes piping out of the shower from an indirect fired hot water heater. Add to the fact that during construction little to no harm was done to the small piece of Mozambican coastline.''{''Check out our favorite eco-friendly travel products…''}''The Best Cuisine in Southern Africa''With fresh seafood and a tropical climate, it shouldn’t be too much of a surprise you can find some awesome food in Mozambique. The famous spicy peri peri is present in many of the dishes and the interesting looking matapa\xa0is sure to entertain. The lodge tries to incorporate a local is a lekker night for every guest and features specialties from the region. Our last night was a tasty spread with lobsters from the sea and traditional matapa (coconuts, cassava leaves, and seafood). Matapa may look like baby food, but it truly delicious and a specialty in Mozambican cuisine. Try it!''LOCAL IS LEKKER! We could eat like this every night.''Digital Detox Vacation''Those that are looking for a “working” vacation should be aware that Mozambique may not be the place. There’s little to no signal in camp and''no WiFi available.''Here you can turn off the electronics and take in the beauty of the surroundings. Instead of checking morning updates and email, it’s checking if the palm trees are blowing . If you are a travel blogger (hint,hint) and must connect we found that you can catch a slight signal with a''Vodacom sim card''and a phone situated ever so perfectly in the right location.''A Drink With A View''If you had referred to sundowners before we’d traveled to Africa we would have looked at you sideways. However, now it is something we’ve come to appreciate and love. The view from the bar at Travessia is one that is to be admired with a cold beer or fresh coconut water in hand. The bar and pool sit on top of a dune that looks directly over the beach and offers some of the best views from the lodge making for great sunsets over the palms. The thick air in Mozambique burst\xa0into flames when the sun dipped below the horizon making for a spectacle that.''The Selling Point''The beach here had to be the selling point. Mozambique had stunning beaches up the entire coastline. Spending time soaking up the sun, swimming, surfing, or riding one of Travessia’s beach bikes down the coast were all great ways to enjoy the setting. The beach seemed to stretch on forever. One afternoon we went for a ride along the coast and found no end in sight. \xa0It is the largest draw to spending a\xa0holiday in Mozambique after all.''It Became A Holiday in Mozambique''The country itself was a highlight for our journey around the world. It is a place that is hard to find elsewhere in the world. In Mozambique, people will greet visitors with a smile. For us traveling full time, destinations can begin to feel like work, it takes a special place like Travessia to make us feel as if we’re on holiday. It’s an escape for even us and because of that, it felt like a holiday and an astonishing place. We left Mozambique and Travessia knowing one thing for certain. We will have to return.''Make sure to stay up to date with Travessia''and ask them about their rates here!''Want More?''{Join us on a photo journey through Mozambique}''Thank you to Travessia Beach Lodge for hosting us. As always all opinions are our own.''You May Also Like''Travessia Beach Lodge: A Holiday in Mozambique to Remember''was last modified:''June 15th, 2017''by''Cameron''Mozambique was never''in the travel plans…''M''ozambique was a country we knew little about. We vaguely knew about the brutal civil war not so long ago, the beautiful coastline, and even that there were giant prawns to be eaten. We were about to give it a skip due to the difficulty of travel, but decided we just had to go where very few that we knew had traveled. What was found was more than we could have ever hoped for. Genuine people, a laid back atmosphere, delicious seafood, and vibrant coastal towns were just the beginnings of our entrancement with Mozambique. In this South African nation were more colors, smiles, and breathtaking landscapes than we had ever seen before.''Driving abroad for the first time is a fear many have, but is it justified? I\xa0recall the ball of nerves''Tasha and I''were when we first rented a car in Germany, to drive down the autobahn. It was a foreign country, we were young, the\xa0car was a manual, and the roads had no speed limit. We didn’t even make it out of the parking lot before I stalled, having the parking lot gate close on me and requiring us to retrieve a new exit pass to get on the road. Not a good start. However, I lived and I’ve continued to drive all around the world. Having just returned from''Southern Mozambique''where the roads and police are notorious. I can say that with a bit of caution, proper knowledge, and a steady hand you will survive driving in a foreign country. I spent some time profiling my tips to survive driving abroad for the first time, or anytime for that matter.''International Driver’s License''This is one that is a classic woe for many people, but one that is likely\xa0unnecessary. There are very few countries that require a notarized international drivers license if your license is already in English. No, people from the U.S. you do not need to head to the A.A.R.P and pick up one of their pieces of paper for $20, it is convenient for their business\xa0though.''Drive Stick''A lot\xa0of the world drives a manual car. There are a plethora of reasons to learn asides from being able to hop in a rental car. It’s sort of like learning to tie a tie. Every person should know how to drive a stick. It also gives greater control over the vehicle and it’s just plain fun. Check out this''link here for some more help''on learning . It’s not too difficult, I learned on the''crazy roads of Greece''.''Google Maps and a Sim Card''No need to rent an expensive GPS system from the car rental company. Sim cards around the world are cheap and with prepaid options it’s easy to top up a smart phone. If you’re not driving far you can download offline maps on Google Maps, no need for sim card. Check out more of our''favorite travel apps here''.''DO NOT Drink and Drive''This is something that should go without saying, but do not drink and drive. Some countries have a zero tolerance where one drink could land you a DUI or in jail. Driving late at night should also be avoided seeing as most locals in developing nations have a tendency to be under the influence at night and can easily put you at risk of losing your life.''Pedestrians''Always stop for pedestrians. Certain countries stop for pedestrians and certain ones don’t. It’s always best to air on the side of caution and stop for a pedestrian waiting to cross. This applies to driving in foreign nations that are developed. Driving in a developing nation is a different ordeal. For instance, if I had stopped for every pedestrian on this bridge in Mozambique I would have been gotten nowhere in a hurry. This does not mean caution should not be exercised. I would never recommend someone driving their first time abroad in a nation such as Mozambique, but in case you are driving here remember people on the roads is a way of life. Drive slow enough should you need to and they’ll move out of the way. They are not cows!''Keep Calm''Losing your cool has never solved any problems on the road. Traffic, road conditions, navigation, pedestrians, livestock, wildlife, distance, and time all can add stress to your experience. That being said, remaining calm and collected always helps. It’s really easy to get worked up over nothing. Trust me, I’ve been there. However, every time I’ve realized it was all for naught and things would have been much smoother had I just “kept calm and carried on.”''Drive Like a Local''When driving in a foreign country you’ll find the locals often don’t follow certain rules. Or they may drive much more aggressively than you’re used to. It’s best to mirror similar driving styles, within reason of course. No need to do 140kph down a pothole-filled road because the local is, but it does help to do things such as driving on the shoulder of the road. Passing is a very common occurrence and often you’ll find the locals actually ride in the shoulder of the road in order to allow faster cars to pass. Now, I wouldn’t advise riding the shoulder constantly, but when a faster car approaches you it is best to get out of the way.''Roadblocks''You drive around enough you will come across a police checkpoint or roadblock. Be aware of the rules of the road for passing these. Certain points are full stop affairs while others should only be slowed down for. Do your research to know which is which, or take head from motorists in front of you.\xa0We''noticed that the rules for driving in Croatia''were vastly different than driving back home in America, and many signs meant varying things.''Livestock''When it comes to developing countries livestock on the road is going to happen. It’s cause to not bother driving in these parts of the world at night, think dumb dark colored cows on roads windy roads with no streetlights. A few things to note when driving in a developing nation.''Goats'': Good luck hitting these guys they’ll jump right out of the way.''Sheep'': They tend to be a little more stubborn than a goat, but a few honks and they’re outta there.''Cows'': Cow vs. Car is not a fight I want to find out the winner to. Cows are stubborn and more or less do their own thing. If you see them in the road be prepared to come to a full stop, or at least slow down. In certain countries this is no laughing matter when driving at night. \xa0One time driving around a bend and finding a cow standing in the middle of your lane\xa0will be enough.''Donkeys'': They’ll move eventually…''Know the Law''Traffic rules around the world are more or less the same everywhere. However, each country has its quirks and you should know the law regarding traffic regulations. It’s especially helpful when dealing with traffic police. Not knowing to signal when pulling off to the side of the road is a silly fine to have to pay. Also, it’s pretty important that most Americans know that you can not take a right/left on red in most places around the world (''Including NYC!''). Research the laws of the road before hand and be aware.''112''Know the emergency number to call. It’s a pretty safe bet to go with''112''in case of an emergency when driving abroad.''It is the number used for many places around the world and can even be used in the U.S. You can find a full list of the''countries using 112 here''.''Insurance''Insurance should be considered. Our''favorite travel credit cards''carry decent car insurance on them when we purchase our rentals with our card. However, that is no dice in some places and not everyone carries a travel credit card with insurance. In those cases you will need to pick up insurance from your rental company or a third party. Don’t go asking the rental company either, they’re pretty well trained to take your money. Do some sound research beforehand.''Car Hire Companies Are Not Your Friend''Even with some of our favorite rental companies we’ve had some unsavory moments at the checkout counter. Things like roadside assistance magically being added on to\xa0our bill and the attendant having no idea why the price is higher than the original quote. Not until we went through the itemized list and us asking did they admit that the roadside assistance wasn’t absolutely mandatory. And somehow the price came to what we were originally quoted. Who would have guessed? Certainly, not the agent during our''road trip through Croatia''who scoffed at the idea of me changing a tire myself.''Passing Cars''If you plan to get anywhere on time you’ll likely have to learn to pass a car, bus, or truck properly. You must be bold but also cautious. When driving along winding roads the driver ahead may indicate it is safe to pass with their blinker. This is not always used, and you should still be cautious even when they have indicated. You’ll also be surprised to learn that most roads have an undesignated third lane, as in the middle of the road. It’s common for the passing car to go down the middle of the road while the oncoming cars move over to the shoulder. This is all done with speed, of course. Exercise caution and do not pass like this until you are experienced. It may not be the best idea for your first time driving abroad.''Road Hazards''Not every country in the world has great roads, and in fact almost every country in the world has some bad roads. Some more than others, but they’ll be a point in time where you’re on a road that just may want to swallow your car whole. It’s become common place for us in Africa and Asia. Muddy. Yes. Rocky. Yes. Sandy. Yes. Potholes. Yes. Flooded road. Yes. Livestock. Yes. People. YES!''Sand'': Deflate your tires, car in a low gear, and GO. With sand if you stop moving you’re stuck, so it’s best to keep the foot on the peddle and hold on.''Mud'': Mud is very similar to sand. Take it easy and keep in mind the car will slide. Be prepared to correct with the steering wheel.''Rocks'': Slow is the\xa0name of the game here. There’s no penalty for coming to a stop and rolling over a large rock. You should be aware of the clearance of your car and what it can handle.''Ruts'': Just because there are ruts does not mean that is the lane you should ride in. It’s often a rough ride and can easily bottom out a car – getting it stuck or damaging the oil pan.''Water'': Know the depth. NEVER go into standing water without knowing the depth of the water. This can be one of the most dangerous hazards to occur when driving. Do not be afraid to get out of the car, wait for another vehicle, or ask a local about the depth of the water.''Potholes'': Big potholes = Slow driving and avoidance. Small potholes = Fast driving. If you keep your speed up for smaller potholes you’ll ride smoothly right over them.''Toll Roads''Always make sure you have cash on you for toll roads. Many, many, many places around the world have highways that toll roads. Yes, they’re annoying, but being prepared for these roads with cash on hand will ease any pain.''Paperwork''If you’re driving across borders in many places you’ll need to notify the rental car company in advanced to receive proper legal paperwork. This can also extend to your personal vehicle proper paperwork identifying the legal owner of the vehicle is a must. We’re currently on a tour of Southern Africa and carry with us a notarized document\xa0detailing the legal owner of the vehicle, the leaser, insurance, and permission to drive across borders. We’ve crossed several borders where they never checked and others where our vehicle was inspected and the paperwork looked over, it’s best to be prepared.''Driving in South Africa''Don’t Over Do It''Yes you have wheels and get everywhere\xa0you’d like, but that doesn’t mean you should go''everywhere''. It’s pretty easy to over stretch yourself and visit too many places in one day. Take it easy, too much driving means you’ll tire yourself out on foreign roads.''Know How To Change A Tire''This could save you a serious headache in many places. One day you’re going to have a flat tire in your lifetime, or you’re just lucky. Check out this article from the''American DMV''on how to change a tire. No matter where you driving abroad tires are the same everywhere.''After all that driving you’re gonna need a room for the night.''{Find a great room here!}''You May Also Like''Driving Abroad for the First Time, From Europe to Developing Nations''was last modified:''September 22nd, 2016''by''Cameron''It was 3 a.m. in Australia, I was three weeks into my''study abroad in the land down under''. Just out of curiosity I hopped on Skyscanner to see if I could find any great international flight deals from Sydney. $500 roundtrip to Bali was one of the first deals that came up. Immediately I called my friend.''“Do you want to go to Bali for a week? There is a special\xa0flight deal but it expires in five hours – make a decision!”''Needless to say, we both made split decisions and quickly booked the flight to Bali.''One month later and we were landing in Indonesia for the first time. We couldn’t wait to explore the “''Island of the Gods”''extensively. However, we knew we only had one week on the island so we had to make the most out of our time.\xa0Only have a short amount of time in Bali like we did?''Here are five amazing things to do on the beautiful island.''Experience a Fire and''Kecak''Dance''Kecak''is a Balinese form of dance that combines music and drama. The spectacle is certainly something to see while visiting Bali. The chants of a male chorus forming a ring make a sort of “enclosure” that sets the stage for the show. Inside the circle are dramatic faces, elaborate costumes, and vivid actors and actresses telling the story depicting a battle from the\xa0Ramayana.''Get Out For Some Adventure''Bali is home to a number of adventure activities and tour operators. Why not throw a little adrenaline rush into your holiday and go whitewater rafting, canyoning, or paragliding? There is no shortage of things to get your heart pumping, just make sure to go back home in one piece!''White Water Rafting Down Sungai Ayung''Head to the Mountains for a Little Culture''Break away from the beaches for a bit and experience some traditional''Balinese\xa0culture''in Ubud. Ubud is located in central Bali and makes for a great base to go temple hopping, check our some wonderful museums, and experience a thriving art scene. Ubud is also a fantastic place to come to just chill out overlooking the rolling rice fields with a coffee in hand.''Monkey Around at the Sacred Monkey Forest''Located in Ubud is the popular sacred monkey forest and sanctuary. Although, it is popular, it was definitely a highlight of our time in Bali. The forests are populated with young and old monkeys who aren’t shy to get up close and personal with their human counterparts. The Monkey Forest is active in conservation and houses many\xa0researchers who are on site noting the\xa0monkey’s social interaction and behavior.''Relax and Get a Traditional Massage''A 90-minute massage for $5 isn’t just a good deal, it’s an amazing deal for anyone from the west. The streets in Bali are littered with massage parlors and it will not be hard to spot one. When you find the one you like, just walk in and choose from a plethora of different kinds of\xa0massages. We went with a 90 minute hot stone massage here, hence the sweaty faces. There are''many awesome hotels in Bali''which many have great locations to have a massage, followed by a relaxing night with drinks.''Or try a''cooking class!''Have You Been to Bali? Leave a Comment and Tell Me What You Did!''You May Also Like:''How to Make the Most Out of Your Time in Bali''was last modified:''April 18th, 2018''by''Natasha''Hoedspruit is becoming the new gateway to the\xa0Kruger National Park, the largest national park in South Africa, and there are a plethora of reasons why.''The undeniable feature of the region is the awe-inspiring Blyde River Canyon, which dominates the horizon.''The large expanses of natural landscapes filled with wildlife extend beyond Kruger to the neighboring private game reserves of ThornyBush, Timbavati, Guernsey, and Klaserie that are easily accessible in the Kruger region. The addition of animal rehabilitation centers into a safari trip in the lowveld does not even require entering the Kruger.''The Way To Save On Accommodation Around Kruger''When it’s busy around the Kruger prices soar! The park may be one of the best in the world for safari and it draws\xa0in the crowds. So, instead of having to book months in advance for basic in park accommodation or shelling out a fortune for a private safari camp we set our sights on a concession outside the park. For our safari around Kruger National Park we stayed\xa0in Hoedspruit. Hoedspruit is well serviced, safe, clean, has much to offer outside the park, and the Orpen gate to\xa0Kruger is easy to access.''Getting To Hoedspruit''The drive to Hoedspruit and the surrounding area takes about five – six hours with stops from Johannesburg. We’d advise getting an early morning start if driving from Joburg and take in some good sights of the Drakensberg as you pass through. Also, one should definitely stop at Millies off the N4; it is a venerable institution and has a great restaurant serving up fresh river trout.''Once we had descended from the Drakensberg and entered the lowveld, we immediately began to see wildlife. At first, it was just some warthogs along the road, but then it turned into a full roadblock of baboons sitting across the road. However, once we had passed through Hoedspruit and continued on through the region filled with private game reserves we began to see all nature of animals. Zebras, elephants, buffalo, wildebeest, impala, giraffes, and all matter of birds were seen just as we made our way to the lodge. It was our first experience in Africa and we were beyond thrilled!''Cheetah Paw Eco Lodge''Our first stop on our endeavor into Africa certainly did not disappoint. Our arrival alone lived up to the hype. We chose to stay on one of the private game reserves around Kruger and we were treated to a terrific bush experience. Our hosts, Doris and Juergen, at the''Cheetah Paw Eco lodge''we’re an absolute delight. Offering us everything you could want out of hosts; warm, helpful, and interesting! Our entry into Cheetah Paw started off with a relaxed main lodge and a cold drink on arrival.''Cheetah Paw itself has a pool, a large viewing deck, free WiFi, a TV in the main lodge (if you still like watching the news these days), and a bar. However, our favorite part of the lodge would have to be the boma. A boma is an enclosure, that was used heavily in some of the\xa0African Great Lakes regions back in the day.''Now it is the perfect place to have a traditional South African braai. A braai in the boma around a campfire is one of the quintessential moments to have in the bush. For those non-South African’s out there a braai is essentially a cook out\xa0done over hot coals and the main dishes to be served are\xa0boerewors (sausage), steak, and pap (maize). The proper way to finish a day is to have a “sundowner” from the back deck as you watch the sunset over the Drakensberg.''Tented Accommodation''The rooms at''Cheetah Paw Eco Lodge''are tented chalets offering everything you could need. The allure of staying in the bush is anything, but sitting in a traditional hotel room. We made it criteria to find accommodation that would allow for an immersive experience.''The word tent is definitely not exciting, but as the\xa0“''glamping” trend continues''staying in tented accommodation is increasingly luxurious even on the affordable end. Which is exactly what we found at Cheetah Paw. Our tent had everything we could need with a massive comfy bed, two seating areas, his and her sinks, outdoor and indoors shower, and a view looking right out on to a watering hole. That’s why we gave a big pass on a hotel near Kruger National Park, we came to see nature.''Private Game Reserves''Private game reserves offer advantages that cannot be found in Kruger National Park. Guests are afforded lower occupancy rates, competitive pricing(sometimes), greater freedom, and a more personalized experience. They\xa0also allow for a longer safari experience with more variety and less time sitting in a car staring at the bush hoping for an elusive cheetah or bushbuck.''Private game reserves determine their own rules and have a smaller number of visitors, allowing them to seek out the wildlife in the bush.\xa0Going down an old dirt road or through the bush for a while to catch a glimpse of wildlife is no problem here. The guides in these reserves also have a much better idea of where to find the animals so tracking down rhinos or leopards might be no problem, and you’ll likely see the Big Five on any given day. No guarantees – it is wildlife after all!''This is an African Wild Dog. The most successful African hunter and a rare sight in the National Parks.''Guernsey Private Nature Reserve''Our base at Cheetah Paw was\xa0within the Guernsey Private Nature Reserve. The Guernsey Reserve does not have the big five, which means you can take a walkabout by yourself without fear of predators. However, you should always stick to the roads since there are a number of venomous snakes in the bush. One other note of caution is to consult with your hosts before doing so, the neighboring reserves do have the big five and a fence isn’t always the best way of containing a wild animal.''The view right outside our room. Not taken with a telephoto lens.''Rehabilitation Centers''There are a number of rehabilitation centers in the Hoedspruit area that specialize in the conservation of the animals that once lived in abundance. We visited two rehabilitation centers and enjoyed both immensely. They offer visitors a chance to learn more in depth about certain breeds and see them up close. All the while the visitor’s entrance fees go towards saving the wildlife they come to see.''The HESC, or Hoedspruit Endangered Species Center, specializes in the rehabilitation and breeding of Cheetahs. Which is Tasha’s favorite animal! They also have a pack of African dogs, some rescued rhinos, and various other animals in need of a home.''The second rehabilitation center we visited was the Moholoholo Rehabilitation center. They take in all manner of animals, but our favorites were a large number of birds of prey they have and the''infamous honey badger''.''Cheetahs in Kruger National Park''Panorama Route''If you’re looking for some spectacular views and a wonderful photography experience then look no further than the Panorama Route. Along the route, you traverse the third largest canyon in the world and the largest wooded canyon. Does the Grand Canyon have trees? Nope! A full day tour of the Panorama route typically includes the Three Rondavels, Burkes Luck Potholes, God’s Window, the Pinnacle and Lisbon Falls.''Driving in South Africa''Orpen Gate''The most convenient gate into Kruger National Park from Hoedspruit is the Orpen gate. From here your journey into Kruger begins. Read More on our''guide to Kruger National Park''!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0South Africa:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in South Africa:''Cape Town'',''Johannesburg'',''Knysna'', and''Stellenbosch''.''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in South Africa:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''Budget Safari Accommodation In Hoedspruit To See Kruger''was last modified:''March 27th, 2017''by''Cameron''A''safari trip in Kenya''is really what a visit to Africa is all about. Kenya’s game parks and reserves are highly sought after by tourists from across the globe. Staying in these excellent gateways, watching superb wildlife, experiencing the fascinating culture of the Masai tribesmen and tasting the flavors of authentic African, Indian and European cuisine in a single Swahili melting pot makes for a special African trip that one is never likely to forget.''Amboseli National Park''The towering Mt.Kilimanjaro may be seen rising a heady 5895 meters from the soils of Tanzania, but the only authentic place to get the best views of this soulful mountain, is from none other but Amboseli National Park in Kenya, which just lies across the border. Add to this the mighty tuskers of Africa, of which only the largest are found here, and you have a spectacular background of a snow capped mountain and vast herds of elephant set against it- a true picture postcard image of an African safari.''Amboseli is home to more than 50 species of mammals and nearly 400 species of birds. The high observation hill\xa0allows for excellent views of the plains below and the teeming wildlife. The Masai tribe can often be seen around the periphery here with their large herds of cattle, and a visit to the community to experience their culture and art would not be out of place. The name of the park itself, Amboseli, means ‘salty dust’ in Maasai language. There are five different habitats for nature lovers to visit from dry river beds, wetlands, woodlands, savannah and sulfur springs. With all these different habitats it pays off to have something to''wear that for your safari in Kenya.''{''Read More:''Top Destinations for a Wild Experience''}''Lake Nakuru National Park''This stunning park, which houses a saltwater lake, is home to huge flocks of pink flamingos and white pelicans that revel in these alkaline waters along with this great bird life come all sorts of animals that make up for a breathtaking African safari. Black rhino, white rhino, lions, baboons and leopards which are the epitome of feline strength can be found in Lake Nakuru. Not to forget the troops of the shy colobus monkeys and Rothschild giraffe frolicking in the dense greenery, against a backdrop of waterfalls and mountain cliffs, makes for one of Africa’s most diverse and equally easily accessible safari.''Situated on the floor of the great Rift valley, this paradise for birdwatchers is surrounded by grasslands and the lake itself, where the visitors can enjoy the wild ecological diversity and the different habitats at the same time.''{''Read More:''Go on a Safari in Kruger National Park''}''Masai Mara National Reserve''The real jewel in the crown of Africa the Masai Mara, displays a wildlife show like no other on earth. Every year from June to October, the rich grasslands of this park draw millions of wildebeest, zebras and many other iconic herbivores to feed here and then give birth to their young ones. However, in order to reach these green pastures they need to cross the tricky Masai river. A real battle for survival then unfolds between these vast herds and the great predators which follow them, like lions, cheetahs and the huge crocodiles lurking in the shallows of the Masai river which lie in wait for these herds to cross.''{''Read More:''Ten Books About Africa You Must Read''}''Lake Naivasha''A two-hour hour drive from the choked arteries of the capital, Nairobi, and reveling in a world of its\xa0own, is the magnificent freshwater lake Naivasha at an altitude of 1884 meters, making it one of the highest lakes in the Rift valley. Extending like a sea the lake surrounded by grassy banks and trees, housing a large variety of water birds, not to forget\xa0the view of the erect ears of the hundreds of submerged hippos jutting up like a periscope of a submarine.''{Book a lodge or check out the latest rates here!}''The earliest outlet of the lake, Njorowa gorge, now acts as the entrance to Hell’s gate national park, which contains some spectacular rock formations and an abundance of flora and fauna which include some extremely rare breeding pairs of lammergeier or bearded vultures.''Ol Pejeta Conservancy''Teeming with wildlife which can be viewed without the rigid rigorous strictures of Kenya’s other national parks, this sheltered oasis is in a class of its own. With the snowy peaks of Mt.Kenya forming an excellent backdrop, this area is home to the largest black rhino sanctuary in East Africa.''Ol Pejeta is the nearest place from Nairobi to see the''big five of Africa''and a close encounter with any of these would not be out of place here. The tented camp at Sweetwaters is built around a waterhole and is the preferred retreat of wildlife lovers, with unfettered views of the watering hole with Mt. Kenya in the background.''{''Read More:''Movies to Watch Before You Go to Africa''}''About the Author''Jo is an adrenaline junkie and an avid globetrotter. She loves to write and started putting pen to paper at a very early age by jotting letters to her penpals. Now, she writes on her blog''WanderWithJo.com''and shares her travel tales with adventurists across the globe. She loves the great outdoors and being close to nature, among other things.You can further follow her escapades on''Facebook''and''Instagram''!''Kenya’s Top 5 Wildlife Safari Getaways''was last modified:''March 2nd, 2017''by''Natasha''When we set out to travel Mozambique we were unsure of what was in store. However after a month in the country it turned out to be one of the best decisions we made in Africa. The Mozambique coast has not just been a highlight of Africa, but has been one of our\xa0favorite regions\xa0to travel ever.''I have to admit that there is police and governmental corruption, a small rebel army,\xa0economic\xa0uncertainty, poor roads, slowly improving infrastructure, and add a visa fee. It does not sound appealing to most visitors.''However, there is another side to traveling Mozambique that comes in the interesting history, Portuguese architecture, warm hospitable people, stunning beaches, and amazing Afro/Portuguese food. Here is what it’s like to travel in Mozambique and everything you need to know to have a great holiday in Mozambique.''Mozambique Travel Advice: The Basics''Travel to Mozambique''All travelers (except citizens of Swaziland, South Africa, Tanzania, Botswana, Malawi, Mauritius, Zambia and Zimbabwe,) need a visa to enter Mozambique. We found information for obtaining a visa scattered across the internet. Do you need to get a visa beforehand or is a visa on arrival possible? How much is a Mozambique travel visa for Americans arriving? All these simple questions were very ambiguous online.''We decided to take our chances and arrive by land from Swaziland without a visa. We crossed over the Goba border, which is open 24 hours. We were the only visitors at the border, and the whole process took about one hour.''At the border, we had to show proof of our accommodation arrangements and have a letter stating that we could drive our rental car into Mozambique. The cost for Americans traveling into Mozambique overland was 900 Rand (or 70 USD) – Cash only. We paid in South African Rand, but could have also paid in USD. \xa0We have no idea if this was the honest price or the price from a greedy border official. With no signs around and no information online, we had no choice but to pay what we were told. However, we did meet another American who paid 500 Rand for a visa on arrival at the airport. Prices in Mozambique seem to change for no apparent reasons whatsoever.''If you plan on driving a car in Mozambique you will need to get third party insurance. This can be obtained at the border for 220 Rand, and is good for 30 days. Even if you have car insurance you will still need this “special” Mozambique car insurance as well.''Don’t get had by the runners when entering or leaving Mozambique. As soon as you drive up in your car, tons of people will run after you demanding your paperwork to “help” you, stating that it’s “their job”. The goal is to disorient you, take your documents, and then demand a tip to get them back. Don’t fall into their trap and never hand over your passport.''We had zero problems or hassles entering at the Goba''border from Swaziland''but encountered these runners leaving and traveling onward into South Africa.''Flying into Mozambique''Most international flights will be serviced in and out of Maputo. From Maputo you can easily take a smaller aircraft to some of the more touristy destinations. Many of these flights connect in Johannesburg and from there it is a couple hour flight onward to Mozambique. We’ve had great experiences with South African airways.''Currency in Mozambique''The Mozambique currency is the new Metical; however, South African Rand and USD are usually welcomed. Always plan to have cash on you as credit cards have not really caught on yet and ATM shortages (outside of Maputo) are quite common. We particularly found trouble when we arrived with zero Metical on us and no ATM’s in sight with a three-hour drive ahead. We pulled over to ask where the nearest ATM was and got laughed at…so make sure to have some backup cash at all times.''Police Corruption in Mozambique''We were warned by just about everyone\xa0that had traveled through Mozambique of the police corruption. The night before we were set to cross the border we spent hours reading horror stories online, and then managed to completely psych ourselves out for getting hassled by the cops in Mozambique. I’m happy to say that after driving 2,000\xa0kilometers, we were only pulled over once. After this encounter with the cops, we were no longer as nervous driving. Here is how the exchange went –''Us'': Bom Dia!''Officer/Military man with gun: Bom Dia, how are you?''Us:''Great!''Officer'': Where are you coming from?''Us'': Inhambane, we are going to Vilankulos.''Officer'': Ah hah! Inhambane is my home. Did you like it?''Us:''Yes, it was beautiful we liked it very much.''Officer:''Where are you from?''Us:''We are American.''Officer:''AMERICA!? I want to go there.''Us:''Yes, it’s a very nice place to live…so what can we help you with?''Officer:''Oh, you know, it’s just a very hot day…I am very thirsty because it is so hot…''{Catching his drift quickly, we search the car for any sign of a cheap cold beverage so that we can go on our way}''Us:''We don’t really have anything to drink…''Officer:''Well, I am also very bored…''{We search for anything we can give to entertain this man, the most entertaining thing we can find is a national park booklet lodged under our seat}''Us:''Ahhh, here we go. How about a''guide to Kruger National Park''?\xa0Yano, lots of lions in here to read about.''Officer:''Oh, I love lions. This will help with my English to talk to tourists, you see. Thank you – have a nice time in Vilankulos! Good bye!''…And off we drive into the sunset (midday).''We still have no idea why we were\xa0pulled over, but arguing was not worth it to us. Rather, just give him something small and be on our way.''There are police stops everywhere in Mozambique, and I believe we just got lucky with only being pulled over by a friendly guy. The police don’t discriminate either. We saw locals and tourists getting stopped, black and white. Our story isn’t to say that police can be bought by bribes, just let them initiate the conversation. Never be the one to suggest a bribe, and don’t let the cops ruin your Mozambique holidays.''It’s worth noting that the country has some “Mozambique travel vehicle requirements,” as well. Things like traveling with two reflector vest in each car paired with triangles are mandatory to have. We joined''this Facebook group''before going to stay up to date on all information regarding Mozambique travel.''Driving in Mozambique''There is basically one main road in Southern Mozambique going from north to south. If you travel outside Maputo at all then you will without a doubt find yourself on the EN1. EN1 is paved and is pretty pothole-less in the south, but it’s advised to always pay attention because there are children walking everywhere and a neverending amount of speed traps.''A joy of overlanding Africa.''We didn’t know this when we entered Mozambique, but almost any road off of the EN1 should be driven on with a 4×4 only. We had a 2×4 bakkie and got stuck a few times and had to get help from the locals. I’ll just say it…Mozambique is a 4×4 country.\xa0Night Driving in Mozambique is also''not advised''.''Showing the chief our photos in the rural villages''The Internet in Mozambique''The''internet in Mozambique''is developing. However, this should not be all that\xa0surprising, this is Africa after all. Chances are you didn’t come to be online anyways. Every place we stayed while in Mozambique either didn’t bother having WiFi or had nonworking “internet.” \xa0If you find that you must be connected while traveling then we highly recommend getting a sim card. The two main service providers are Mcell and Vodacom, and you won’t be able to shield your eyes from the crazy amount of advertising for these companies in the country. Registering a sim card should\xa0be done at a real store. You will find tons of people on the roads with Vodacom vests on selling top-up cards, but do not\xa0register a new sim with them only buy their airtime. Data is extremely inexpensive (500 MT for 5 GB,) and works decently well.''Mozambique Cuisine''The food in Mozambique is nothing short of wonderful. Most of the population lives on the Mozambique coast so hopefully you like seafood! Crayfish, prawns, and crab are caught along the shores and thrown into even the most basic of dishes. Matapa is another usual flair that may look questionable on the surface, but is actually a fantastic blend of coconut, cassava leaves, and a seafood variety (clam, crab, or prawn) – a must try! A good meal can be had for 200-500 Mets.''2M is the national brew of Mozambique and a large bottle will run you all of 50 Mets. Tap water may be questionable to some stomachs, but we drank it the entire time with our''LifeStraw Go water bottle filters''and never had an issue.''Malaria in Mozambique''Precaution against Malaria should be taken seriously in Mozambique, especially if you are in well populated and wet areas.''Cerebral malaria''is common in the country especially during the wet season. Don’t be that person who gets malaria on their holiday – protect yourself and ask around you if the mosquitos are bad where you are at.''If traveling from South Africa, doxycycline can be acquired for quite affordable prices even if you are a non-resident. It’s also worth noting that malaria treatment pills are available at any Mozambican pharmacy without a prescription for about 300-500 mets. We took advantage and stocked up for the rest of our African travels. Always make sure to take the proper health precautions when traveling to Mozambique and the rest of Africa.''Language in Mozambique''The official language in Mozambique is Portuguese, and knowing some of the basics will probably make any experience more enjoyable. However, Mozambique is a land of many languages with many people being multi-lingual. We were able to travel in Mozambique just fine with English.''Tipping in Mozambique''Tipping in Mozambique never used to be a thing, but since South African holiday goers have come and started leaving tips it is now expected in many touristy places. 10% is a fair amount to leave at restaurants. When staying at private lodges 500 mets per day seems to be a fair price for the staff, but just ask the lodge managers for their recommendation first.''Is Traveling to Mozambique Safe?''Is Mozambique a safe place to travel? At the time of writing, there are some safety concerns noted on the''Mozambique Wikitravel page'', with a few Mozambique travel warnings. These safety concerns mostly pertain to the center of the country\xa0where Renamo still has a stronghold. Recently tensions have begun to flair and fighting\xa0has returned. We felt 100% safe while traveling southern Mozambique and felt welcome\xa0just about anywhere we went. You’re likely to experience no trouble in Mozambique, besides the general annoyances that traveling Africa can bring. Keep your wits and street smarts about you especially in Maputo and all should be fine. Avoid displaying signs of wealth as an opportunist is will always take advantage.''Average Pricing in Mozambique''I didn’t know this until after traveling all over Africa, but Mozambique is''incredibly affordable for Africa standards.''There are plenty of accommodation options ranging from budget to luxury. For a basic, but comfortable, double room in Vilanculos and Tofo Beach, we paid $25/night. We then stayed at a luxurious beach hideaway about an hour north of Inhambane with a''mid range price point of $150/night''(a steal in Africa).''Anvil Bay in the Maputo Special Reserve''is considered one of the most expensive lodges in Mozambique, and staying here will run you about $500/night. You can find comfort at affordable prices, which is rare in Africa and why I love Mozambique so much.''Food is a delicious mix of vegetarian and seafood and is also cheap! Surprisingly our best meal in Mozambique was also our cheapest and was crab curry for $3 at a local shack in Vilankulos.''Activities can make or break you. Our most expensive outing was $50 a person and included snorkeling in the Bazaruto Archipelago and having a seafood lunch on Bazaruto Island. This was an experience I was reluctant to pay $50 on, but afterwards I realized it was completely worth it. For whale shark diving in Tofo Beach, we paid $30, and this happened to be one of our best wildlife experiences throughout all of Africa!''Where to Travel in Mozambique?''It is difficult to put into words the beauty of the Mozambican coastline. It felt like most of our time spent on the coast was in complete seclusion. There are a plethora of places to spend your time soaking up the sun, eating some fresh seafood, or having a laugh with the locals.''Only in Mozambique did we find such beautiful beaches where hawkers, umbrellas, beach chairs, or people were all absent. If you need just one reason to travel\xa0to Mozambique, let it be the stunning beaches.''Maputo Elephant Reserve''The Maputo Elephant Reserve lies\xa0south of Maputo, the capital city. The reserve is 50,000 hectares of lakes, mangrove swamps, serene beaches and woodlands. The park is wild with deep sand roads making accessible only by 4×4 or the air.''Elephants and rhinos used to roam free here\xa0before they were poached during the brutal civil war that lasted 21 years. Although, a few\xa0elephants remain\xa0and more are being introduced.''We spent several days of tranquility in the Maputo Reserve\xa0at the''beautiful Anvil Bay Beach Camp''.''We\xa0loved every second of our time in the reserve. Our days were spend riding fat bikes down empty beaches, dining on fish caught\xa0right off shore, snorkeling over untouched reefs, and taking in some\xa0of bird life.''To enjoy the reserve you must stay overnight due to lack of accommodation in the area and the difficulty of arrival. That leaves you with staying in one of the few lodges in the reserve or camping.''Tofo, Mozambique''Tofo Beach is as\xa0well a beaten path as there is in Mozambique. However,\xa0it is for good reason it one of the best places to visit in Mozambique.''While the beach is gorgeous it is the famous deep water bay just off its shore that makes Tofo worth the visit. The bay of Tofo is regarded as one of the best places to see megafauna. We traveled\xa0to Tofo\xa0to see some of the megafaunas and take an ocean safari out into the bay.''The ocean safari we took is one of best\xa0experiences of our lives. The day was spent swimming along whale sharks, giant manta rays, and a hammerhead shark. For $30 this experience cannot be beaten. After our full day on the ocean, we grabbed some lunch, hit the beach, and then watched the sunset over the bay as dozens of humpback whales breached just a kilometer offshore.''If you’re looking to go too, the best time to dive in Mozambique is typically between May and September when winds are low and megafauna numerous. We traveled there in July/August and could not have timed\xa0it better. Check out my''Africa packing list''for ideas on what to bring.''Swimming with''Whale Sharks''– an incredible experience''Tofo Beach, however, beautiful it may be, is crowded for Mozambique standards and you may find a slight bit of annoyance from the constant child touts asking you for money every 2 minutes. It actually became amusing warding off these 13-year-olds. One even revealed to me their secret to selling things to tourists.''“If I annoy you enough you will eventually just buy something” and “I’ll go away if you just buy something.” We must confess he’s a smart kid, but\xa0we weren’t having any of it.''Just past the main beach and Casa de Praia, there is a fantastic lookout point to watch the sunset over Tofo. This is where we ended our day\xa0after our ocean safari. From the viewpoint, we watched\xa0around 40 humpback whales put on a dazzling aerial show. We ended our days on Tofo Beach at another laid back backpacker spot with amazing food.''Mozambeats isn’t beach front,''but we would stay there again in a heartbeat.''Morrumbene''We wanted to see even more of the Mozambican coast. Many travelers in Mozambique use a common route of traveling on to Vilakulos after Tofo Bay, but we found ourselves in Morrumbene.''A local village with another untouched coast is where we called''Travessia Beach Lodge''our home. We loved living five days without shoes and without worry. A laid-back barefoot location where you can see the stars in all their glory is my kind of place.''Did I mention that the Mozambican people are one of a kind? I usually say that the locals\xa0are friendly, or the *insert nationality here* are genuine, but the Mozambicans took us by surprise.''From the lodge we were able to visit the local villages in Morrumbene, and everyone\xa0we talked to was full of smiles, laughs, and\xa0stories to share.''They are the kind of people who seemed happy to give us the shirt off their\xa0backs. \xa0if we had needed, even though they don’t have many material items to spare. If you need another reason to visit Mozambique, it should be for the people.''Vilankulos''About a four drive north of Inhambane is the town of Vilankulos. It is the\xa0jumping off point for the one of a kind\xa0Bazaruto Archipelago.''It is home\xa0to some of the most scenic islands we have ever laid my eyes on. The horizons here are filled with fine white sand and gorgeous blue water. We took a dhow out to Bazaruto island to spend the afternoon exploring the archipelago. If your pockets are deep you can stay at one of the few private lodges on the archipelago, but we decided to stay at''Baobab Beach Backpackers''and enjoyed the laid back\xa0atmosphere there.''Bazaruto Island''The beautiful sand here has been deposited by the Save river and continues to shift with the currents. The spectacle here continues beneath the surface as your eyes will be dazzled by a\xa0rainbow\xa0of colors as soon as you snorkel the famous two-mile reef. Besides seeing Bazaruto we were also seeking to\xa0spot\xa0an elusive dugong. A''dugong'', or a “sea cow” as the Mozambicans know them, have one of the highest populations in the area, so we were sure we would see one. Unfortunately, we left Mozambique without ever seeing one, but we know we will be back! They were spotted the day before we went out in search so there is always the chance.''Besides the dugongs and the islands, Vilankulos is a pleasant town to spend a couple of days in and just watch life go by. It is a very well worn city on the Mozambican travel circuit so you are bound to meet other travelers if alone.''Maputo: The Mozambique Capital''We tried to avoid the capital city, as we are just''not big city type of people anymore''. We did manage to spend a couple hours here and found traffic to be hectic, overpriced, and overpopulated with police. However, for anyone traveling to a few destinations in Mozambique, then Maputo will probably sneak its way into the itinerary at some point. Either on your way in or out of the country. It is an interesting city for what it’s worth, but I probably wouldn’t spend much time here unless you want a night out at the bars.''Travel to Mozambique''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Mozambique:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''.''Flights to Mozambique:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Tours in Mozambique:''If you’re not much of a driver check out some of these''Mozambique tours.''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We did not drink the tap water in Mozambique. Instead we used our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Plane''t to get you through the wireless nights.''Adaptor:''You’ll need this adaptor''in Southern Africa.''Check out Mozambique in our video!''You May Also Like:''24 Essential Beach Packing List Items You’ll Want for Vacation''How to Plan a Safari in Africa: A Step by Step Guide''Here’s Why You Shouldn’t Be Afraid to Travel Africa''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Only Mozambique Travel Guide You Need''was last modified:''April 15th, 2018''by''Natasha''Mozambique to most American’s is a place of mystery. We had heard of the country and had a vague sense of its coastline, the history as a former\xa0Portuguese colony, and having just survived a long civil war. With what little information we had we set out to explore some of Mozambique’s 3,700km of coastline. Information about Mozambique by no means came\xa0from the traditional\xa0sources we use when we prepare to travel. Our best sources were from other travelers once we had landed in South Africa, a few blog posts, friends, and even Facebook groups dedicated to spending a holiday in Mozambique.''Mozambique is the sort of place that scares most people away. The logistics may not always easy, but there are ways around that, and for the adventurous you’re sure to find what you’re looking for. We certainly found all of that on our first stop in Mozambique. Our destination was the Maputo Elephant Reserve; however, getting there in our bakkie was half the battle. We headed deep into the Maputo Elephant Reserve to a remote lodge that had promises of beautiful secluded beaches.''After hours of driving through sandy roads, potholed roads, we came to a stop as night had fallen and we parked\xa0in thick coastal bush. We walked down a narrow path of low coastal trees with the slight sound of wind. Not until 30m out did we hear the waves. Out on the beach we found the “camp,” so to speak. Several tents lined along the beach with a full bar, dining area, handmade canvas\xa0seats, a roaring fire, and kilometers and kilometers of unspoiled Mozambican coastline.''Anvil Bay, a Barefoot Paradise''Anvil Bay is a collection of casinhas'', or little huts, nestled within the coastal forests of Mozambique. It is a secluded beach camp located\xa0along the Southern Mozambique coastline in the protected wilderness region of the\xa0Maputo Special Reserve. Which is home to a collection\xa0of Africa’s last coastal elephants and various other wildlife as they are reintroduced to the reserve. The camp was built with the smallest footprint possible on the environment and is quite literally a camp. However, it is unlike any beach camp we had visited before. For instance, that bit I mentioned about avoiding the travel woes of Mozambique, one can book a helicopter transfer right from Maputo to the resort providing mesmerizing views along the way.''Sustainable Tourism in Mozambique''The beauty of Anvil Bay is its goal of being\xa0low impact on the\xa0beautiful coast of Mozambique. We often write\xa0about''ECO-friendly tourism''on our blog, and a true care for this was obviously on display. It was something we found elsewhere on the Mozambican coast, and clearly the new model for building a lodge meant to highlight its environment. Very few are coming to Mozambique because it is the new Miami Beach or Cannes or even''The Seychelles.''You come for the pristine and remote coastline, tranquil environment, exoticism, adventure, wildlife, and the beaches.''That’s building into the environment, not over it!''Our Room''Our casinha was room number one and tucked away in the canopy of the coastal forest. The room had canvas sides that opened up on all sides allowing you to truly take in the beauty of nature. Early morning\xa0sounds in our room\xa0were that of dozens of bird species, waves, and the ocean breeze.''The most notable feature of the room was the woodwork\xa0and native elements. Everything was built with local labor, and a skilled carpenter designed and built the unique furniture. Nighttime was under a vaulted\xa0thatched roof and our bathroom was replete with\xa0stained wood. We still haven’t stopped referencing Robinson Crusoe when referring to our stay at Anvil Bay.''A short walk down a pathway through the coastal forest led to our outdoor shower and onto the beach. Mornings were spent walking the beach to camp where we would have breakfast in the beautiful campsite.''The Food''Anyone that knows us knows that we are total foodies. So the delicious food here certainly did not disappoint and highlighted the environment we were in. We had tropical fruits grown in Mozambique and fresh caught fish almost everyday. Our first evening in even started off with fresh sashimi from fish caught that day, much to Tasha’s delight. A full bar and a barman who made some wonderful cappuccinos kept us happy too (''we like coffee''). While here on the coast of Mozambique\xa0there was no going hungry and no bland food that the African continent can be so notorious for.''What To You Do With No One Around?''Long walks and long books. A secluded and quiet beach is perfect for tuning out. Forget about the morning newspaper or television (No TV’s at all) and relax in the fact that while in Anvil Bay that is the extent of your world. There’s little to no cell reception\xa0here and certainly no tourist to disturb your peace. We even ditched the internet for a few days (gasp!) Life here is relaxation at its best.''Just because you’re tuning out doesn’t mean you need to sit on the beach the whole time. There is\xa0no shortage of active things to do for those who don’t want to just take in the atmosphere. Hikes through the bush where you can spot numerous coastal birds and rare glimpses of returning wildlife were definitely an African treat. A fleet of sand bikes gave us wheels to explore the coastline and let us get our fitness on. No need to worry about anyone watching, we biked for kilometers along\xa0the beach\xa0with absolutely no one around.''A natural reef is located only 200m off the beach and taking one of the boats out to explore the marine life is as simple as having to ask. They have all of the equipment needed and even wetsuits for the cold days. Want more water activities? Body boards, kayaks, and stand up paddle boards are also sure to entertain. Or you can try your hand at catching dinner with some of the staff, big game fish are located just off shore.''The Most Tranquil Place in the World''Seclusion. That’s the best way to describe our experience at Anvil Bay. The beaches here are empty, quiet, and untouched. Anvil Bay is marketed as a private barefoot wilderness experience and that is exactly what it is. The only footprints on the beach you’ll find here are your own. If you’re looking to unwind after a tour through Africa or have an escapism vacation, relaxing here on the beaches of Mozambique will be sure to satisfy. We found great solace while at Anvil Bay. It was a special experience that we will certainly take with us where ever we go, and will likely go unrivaled.''Want More?''{Join us on a photo journey through Mozambique}''Thank you to Anvil Bay\xa0for this experience! As always, all opinions remain our own''You May Also Enjoy''A Wild Mozambican Beach Resort: Anvil Bay Seclusion In Africa''was last modified:''June 27th, 2017''by''Cameron''“We are going to Swaziland next,” I told my parents while describing our upcoming travel plans.''“Where?” They asked. “Swaziland, you know, they still have a King there.”''“Oh, that’s great, be safe!”''Needless to say, they had absolutely no idea where we were heading – just that it was somewhere in Africa. It’s okay if you also haven’t heard of the Kingdom of Swaziland, because to tell you the truth up until a couple of years ago I hadn’t either. Now we can provide others with some of the best things to do and see in Swaziland.''So Where Is Swaziland Located?''The Kingdom of Swaziland is a landlocked country in Southern Africa between Mozambique and South Africa. It is a small country, but packs in a whole lot of character\xa0to make up for its size. Swaziland is in fact one of the last absolute monarchies in the world. Yes, that means a real African King, and a Kingdom.''Besides being small and having a King, Swaziland is home to many unique artisan products, incredibly friendly people, a plethora of hippos, and even an impressive highway network. Actually, for such a relatively unheard of country we found Swaziland packed with interesting facts.''Swaziland has one\xa0of the highest numbers of people struck by lightning per capita in the world. And we\xa0made sure to ask everyone we met if they knew of someone who had been struck. “Of course,” seemed to be the general response. “It’s something in the ground.”''A speeding ticket in Swaziland will cost you 60 Emalangeni. Or about $4 USD,\xa0trust us we know. If you don’t have cash, try carrying around some chocolate bars or Coca-Cola for the police…''Swaziland is a predominantly Christian country, and yes, there are churches EVERYWHERE.''Tragically, Swaziland has the highest AIDS/HIV prevalence in the world.''Do you need medicine? Don’t worry about going to the doctor for a prescription, the pharmacist will assist you right at the counter and drugs are very affordable.''You can get anywhere and back in Swaziland in one day.''Things to do and see in Swaziland''Besides witnessing everyday life in Swaziland and chatting with the friendly Swazi’s, there were a number of highlights that we experienced while traveling the small country.''Hike Up Sibebe Rock''Just north of the unimpressive capital of Mbabane\xa0is Swaziland’s\xa0famous rock, Sibebe. Sibebe isn’t just famous in Swaziland, oh no, it is actually the second\xa0largest freestanding rock in the world! You can either admire Sibebe from ground level or spend a morning hiking it. There are numerous hiking trails to get anyone up the mountain in a couple of hours time. If you start your walk at\xa0Mbuluzi Gate then entrance will cost somewhere between E20-E30 – depending on the mood of the workers. There are local guides there willing to take visitors as well if they do not want to go without one. Don’t forget to bring some Sibebe beers with you so you can enjoy them at the top!''Have a Sundowner at House on Fire''House on Fire is an amazing venue located at Malandela’s Farm it houses an entertainment complex, shops, art gallery, restaurant, and accommodation with a picturesque African backdrop. One must\xa0go to House on Fire and admire all the fantastic art sculptures. Afterward, have a sundowner and snacks at Malandela’s restaurant. We ate here and few times and the food is delicious! If you’re looking for WiFi, Malandela’s Farm also has decently fast connection although it is not free. \xa0Besides eating and entertainment there are some great shops here too. Our favorite was''Gone Rural''. A social enterprise that’s main focus is empowing the local women of Swaziland. Gone Rural gives Swazi women jobs that allow them to work and create handcrafts in their home villages. Meaning they can care for their homesteads\xa0and also work. The Gone Rural shop at Malandela’s Farm\xa0sells these products and the handcrafts are amazingly beautiful and unique!''Having a Sundowner at Malandelas''Go Shopping at the Swazi Candles Center''Swaziland has an astonishing collection of handmade products\xa0made by the locals throughout the country. If you’re looking to spend a little money then an afternoon at Swazi Candles is just what you need. \xa0Once stepping into Swazi Candles all eyes will be fixated on the hundreds of different candles that they produce. Every candle is handmade and each has it’s own unique style, texture, and color.''There are many other shops in the center once you are down admiring all the pretty candles. A true shopaholic could easily spend an hour or two strolling in and out of Baobab Batik, Black Mamba, and Sambane Cafe.''Photo taken at the Swazi Candle Factory''Make Friends with Zebras at Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary''Located in Ezulwini Valley, is the quiet Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary.\xa0Spending a day here certainly won’t disappoint anyone who has just come from''Kruger National Park in South Africa.''Unlike Kruger, you can actually get out of your car and stretch those legs at Mlilwane. There are no predators (Or barely any. We heard talk of a leopard when we were there.) wandering the grounds. We enjoyed being able to view nature without the car windshield in between us. For lunch, we ate at the\xa0Hippo Haunt Restaurant which served up amazing vegetable curry! If you aren’t in Ezulwini then there are plenty of other reserves in Swaziland like the\xa0Mkhaya Game Reserve.''Stop at\xa0Ngwenya Glass after the Border''Did I mention that Swaziland has some amazing handcraft products? Right after coming over the Oshoek Border Post from South Africa is the town of Ngwenya. We recommend stopping at Ngwenya Glass to watch the glassblowers make beautiful glasses, paperweights, and all types of glass amazements. There is even a cafe for those that need a “pick me up” from the long drive into The Kingdom.''Sniff the Asbestos in\xa0Bulembu Town''Just kidding, don’t sniff anything! Bulembu used to be a Swazi mining town producing mass amounts of\xa0asbestos. \xa0Back in the day Bulembo was booming with schools, housing, a club\xa0and even a movie theater. Then the world found out the dangers of asbestos and in 2001 the mine completely shut down, turning Bulembu into a ghost town. Now the town has been revitalized into an initiative giving a safe\xa0haven for Swazi orphans. The town has a museum, bakery, and interesting abandoned buildings for visitors to gallivant around now. Our visit to Bulembu was one of our favorite things to do and see in Swaziland.''Abandoned Movie Theater in Bulembu''Straddle South Africa and Swaziland Border Free!''Hike\xa0Emlembe mountain for your chance to be a rule breaker At the top of the peak you can cross borders freely, just don’t tell anyone! After this 2 hour hike up from Bulembu hikers will be rewarded with a beautiful view over Swaziland and South Africa.''General info for visiting Swaziland''Many visitors don’t need a visa for entering Swaziland and can stay for 30 days as a tourist. The border crossings into Swaziland are seamless and the customs officials are surprisingly friendly.''MTN is the only cell phone operator in Swaziland. They run a bit of a monopoly in the country so purchasing data won’t be as affordable as neighboring South Africa or Mozambique.''SiSwati\xa0is the local language, but many people in the main cities can speak good English.''The Emalangeni is the Swaziland currency, but almost anywhere and everywhere will take the South African Rand at 1:1.''The Swaziland Reed Dance usually takes place late August or September (all depends on the weather), and it is one of the country’s\xa0greatest spectacles. A visit here will give a true insight into Swazi culture.''Do you need to go to church on Sundays? Don’t worry, there is one on almost every block in Swaziland. The country is predominantly Christian, so dress modestly.''We had a great time visiting\xa0the Kingdom of Swaziland! Have you traveled to Southern Africa?''You Might Also Like''Things to do and see in Swaziland''was last modified:''March 5th, 2017''by''Natasha''“The Kruger,” as South Africans know it, is one of the most world-renowned national parks to spot wildlife. It is the quintessential park to have a wildlife safari in South Africa.''The park is roughly the size of Israel and visitors are almost guaranteed to''spot the “Big Five''” in one day. However, given the popularity of the Kruger finding the sweet spot can be difficult without totally going broke.''Guide to Kruger National Park''It’s pretty hard to begin planning for your first safari without coming\xa0across Kruger National Park. It is the largest South African National Park and has one of the highest densities of wildlife of all the national parks. Kruger is home to approximately 517 birds, 147 mammals, and 118 reptiles.''Visitors to the park are offered a wide range of services. The park offers guided drives, bush walks, backpacking trails, and golf. It’s also the only park we’ve visited in Africa where the rest stops are stocked with cappuccinos, tasty snacks, and even souvenirs. If you’re looking for a park that has all the creature comforts of the west than Kruger National Park is the one for you.''The park itself is the size of Wales or Israel, so it could be its own lion ruling country. With a park that size, we’ve made our guide to Kruger to help any visitor out. To start there are a few questions you need to ask yourself about your Kruger Park safari. Such as, do you drive yourself or hire a guide?''Kruger National Park\xa0Fees''South African Citizens and residents'': R76 per adult, per day – R38 per child, per day''SADC Nationals'': R152 per adult, per day – R76 per child, per day''Foreign Nationals:''R304 per adult, per day – R152 per adult, per day''Self Drive or Guided Kruger Safari''This is the question a lot of people end up asking themselves. Should you drive yourself through the park or hire a bush guide with a safari truck? Our advice, as well as many others more experienced than ourselves? Do both! To get the best experience we firmly believe in doing both self-drive and a guided tour. You get the best of both worlds.''With a self-drive, you are afforded the ability to stay in a climate controlled comfy car, move at your own pace, explore, and have a more relaxing experience. The game drive offers you an expert who is connected to the “bush telegraph” and will find animals that you would miss on your own.''Tips for Self Drive''Arrive early. There are a number of reasons to be the first at the gate. There are a max number of visitors let into the park each day. You want to see as much as possible.''Bring a thermos with coffee or tea to keep warm in the mornings.''Drive slowly and keep your eyes peeled on the bush, you will see anything that is on the road.''Don’t be afraid to ask passing cars about sightings. It’s an unwritten rule to share information with others about interesting animal sightings.''Pick up a map at the gate. (As of July 2016 the cost is 40 Rand)''Make sure to pack a lunch or prepare for a braai. The main camps do have food and some of it’s not too shabby. However, the best experience comes from stopping at the more remote picnic spots and having a meal in the bush.''If you see several cars stopped it’s almost always a sure sign that there is an interesting sighting. Approach with ease and someone will eventually let you in, and even point out where to look.''Bring binoculars and a telephoto lens for optimal viewing and photography.''Tips for Guided Tour''Dress Warm! This is a must. Driving around at the crack of dawn in an open-air vehicle is cold.''Tip your guide. South Africa is a tipping country and should do likewise. From our understanding, 10% is always a good ballpark for a tip.''Ask questions. Seriously, if you’re paying an expert to drive you around use your resource and ask away. Don’t squander your guide to Kruger.''Don’t go too photo happy. It’s something else watching a safari truck pull up with a load of tourists and then the sound of all the cameras that go off. Just tone it down, and enjoy the sights.''Grab a warm cup of coffee or tea for the morning.''Pack binoculars and a telephoto lens for viewing and photography.''Always verify what’s included in booking. We always make sure to know what we get in order to avoid an unpleasant surprise. Is lunch or breakfast included? How about the conservation fee?''We are happy to say that''Kruger is also wheelchair accessible!''The Rules at Kruger National Park''No getting out of your vehicle!''50 km is the strict speed limit. You’re there to see wildlife not kill an animal with your car.''Stay on the road.''Do not feed or disturb animals.''Stay on time. The gates and rest camps open and close at set times; make sure to adhere to them.''Do not lean out a sunroof or window.''This should go without saying, but''DO NOT LITTER''. However, we see it time and time again all around the world.''Get more information at''SANParks website''.''Five Things to Spot In Kruger''“The Big Five” – Lions, Elephants, Buffalo, Leopard, and Rhino''“The Little Five” – Buffalo Weaver, Elephant Shrew, Leopard Tortoise, Ant Lion and Rhino Beetle.''“Birding Big Six” – Ground Hornbill, Kori Bustard, Lappet-faced Vulture, Martial Eagle, Pel’s Fishing Owl and Saddle-bill Stork.''“Five Trees” – Baobab, Fever Tree, Knob Thorn, Marula, Mopane.''Kruger National Park Map''(Click on the map of Kruger to enlarge.)''Courtesy of SAN Parks.''Where to stay for a Kruger safari''There are a plethora of accommodation options when it comes to visiting Kruger National Park. However, it can be broken down into two basic ideas.\xa0Visitors can stay outside the park or within the park. There isn’t a clear answer here, but the short answer is both. Of course, it all depends on budget, time, and interests when selecting your Kruger park lodge.''We chose to stay outside the park so we could explore the Hoedspruit area and we found a great budget safari lodge at\xa0Cheetah Paw Eco Lodge. If you have time a great option would be to self-drive through Kruger for a few days before dropping your car off and spending the end of your trip in one of the many private reserves.''Why? You’d likely be disappointed in the accommodation if you stayed in the park first, not that the park\xa0is anything short of a terrific safari experience, just hard to compete with the comfort and value of private lodges.''Private Game Reserves Accommodation''The accommodation here tends to give you a lot more bang for your buck and even goes all out\xa0to super luxurious. If you’re looking for that famous 7-star experience you can find it in a number of private game reserves, such as Sabi Sands.''We were in search of that sweet spot ourselves. We wanted all of the creature comforts we could ask for, great hosts, comfortable rooms, good\xa0bush environment, and an affordable price. That’s what we found at\xa0the Cheetah Paw Eco Lodge. There are a number of private game reserves in the Limpopo region.''You can select from Thornybush, Klaserie, Timbavati, Sabi Sands, and smaller ones like Guernsey (that’s where we stayed).''Highlights From Staying Outside The Park''Higher availability''Better Accommodation''Better Food''More intimate''Not necessarily stuck in camp or a car''Kruger National Park Accommodation''Asides from the few high dollar private lodges, Kruger park lodges in the park remain booked accommodation in the park is rather basic. It totally gets the job done, and very few will complain if they know what they’re getting into. You are after all in the park before anyone else and in the park after everyone else.''Which is a big deal when the best time for viewing wildlife is in the\xa0morning and evening. Staying in the camps is extremely popular, and most camps even sell out as soon as they release the dates up to a year in advance. Some\xa0of the most popular camps are the Lower Sabie, Skukuza, Letaba and the Satara.''Highlights Of Staying In Park''Cheaper (asides from the few private camps)''You’re inside''THE''park''Lots of wildlife''Days worth of driving and activities.''Essential Items To Bring To Kruger National Park''It depends on the season, but''the right safari clothes are crucial. You can read this post here on what we like to wear on safari.''Binoculars'': If you want to be able to spot and identify wildlife and birds then a good pair of binoculars is a must.''A great packable down jacket is never a bad idea''!''Here is our''Africa packing list''. As well as a post that''details what to wear on safari''!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0South Africa''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0South Africa:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in South Africa we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in South Africa:''Cape Town'',''Johannesburg'',''Knysna'', and''Stellenbosch''.''Flights to\xa0South Africa:''Compare airlines, dates, and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with a travel insurance policy. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in South Africa fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend picking up a''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Have you been to Kruger National Park? What was your experience?''Read Next:''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''An Intro Guide to Kruger National Park''was last modified:''November 30th, 2017''by''Cameron''So, where are the Seychelles and what are they? The stunning 115 islands that make up the Seychelles should need no introduction. Upon landing in Mahe at 8 am after\xa0a red-eye flight from Abu Dhabi with multiple screaming babies, we should have been extremely tired. However, as soon as we walked out of the tiny airport there was no time to be groggy – we were in a complete paradise. A paradise made up of sparkling granite, crystal waters, and lush green jungles, unlike anything we had ever seen previously.''Where are the Seychelles?''So where are the Seychelles? The islands lie off the coast of East Africa in the warm Indian Ocean north of both Madagascar and Mauritius, and just about parallel with''parts of Kenya.''There are 115 islands, but the three main ones frequented by tourists are Mahe, Praslin, and La Digue. I feel like the Seychelles don’t need many words to be described, so here are a couple of photos to get started.''Needless to say, the coastlines are pristine and the inland jungles feel (and are) uninhabited. The white sand seen in these photos feels like heaven under your feet. We learned that the white sand actually comes from the excrement of the abundant and beautiful parrot fish, which chow down on\xa0all the coral.''The weather here is idyllic for a tropical holiday as the average yearly temperature sits at about 84°F. \xa0However, what makes the Seychelles one of the most idyllic places in the world is its exclusivity. The Seychelles are not a budget destination, the resorts''here are for the honeymooners'', celebrities, and elite. It’s possible to have an entire secluded beach all to yourself while visiting. Of course, it is possible to visit the Seychelles on a more mid-range budget, but we will get to that later.''What’s the food situation in Seychelles?''First and foremost – food! You won’t find yourself going hungry in the Seychelles. The islands boast a fascinating amount of fresh, tropical fruits at low prices. Common treats are mangos, bananas, coconuts. and starfruits. These can be found at many roadside stands by popular beaches, or any resort will have an abundant selection of fresh fruits. We had about three coconut waters a day at 30 rupees each right from the side of the road. If you have coconut water make sure to have the fruit vendors cut open the shells for you when you are done so you can eat the flesh.''For main dishes one can find fried chicken shops near any grocery store – this seemed to be the local and budget option on the island. For about 40 Rupees you will find yourself with a nice size portion of fried chicken and chips. \xa0At restaurants around the island, there is spicy curry available almost anywhere as well as fresh local red snapper. For quick snacks, it’s easy to get your hands on samosas at small convenience stores.''The Seychellois take great pride in their local brew, and I can’t say I blame them. SeyBrew Lager is the national beverage of choice and is perfect to drink while relaxing on an empty beach. The cost from a grocery store is 25 rupees a bottle. \xa0Another must try is the local\xa0Takamaka Rum. Buying the rum\xa0at the store and mixing your own cocktails will be much more cost-effective than paying for mixed drinks at the resorts.''Accommodation in the Seychelles''So now that we have answered where the Seychelles are, it’s important to note that the Seychelles are not a backpacking destination. Resorts are scattered throughout Mahe, and then become few and far between on the more exclusive, La Digue and Praslin. However no resort in the Seychelles come at a cheap price. If it is in your budget to stay at a resort then it is worth experiencing the high life in a beautiful setting for a few nights, especially if you’re on a special trip.''Airbnb and private guesthouses are also an option in The Seychelles, but at $75-$100 a night, they are not quite as affordable as private rentals in the rest of the world. BUT you’re in the Seychelles, it’s expensive, so you may just have to buck up and bear it for your vacation. It’s also worth noting that the Seychelles are not a place where you can just show up and “wing it.” Customs officials want to see proof that you will be laying your head somewhere during your stay, and will ask for confirmations and addresses before letting you into the country.''The Wildlife and Land''You’re''technically in Africa''now so chances are there will be a couple of wildlife sightings. We found Aldabross tortoises throughout parts of Mahe, which are amazingly large creatures that are indigenous to the Seychelles. For more tortoise fun there are 150,000 Aldabra giant tortoises roaming free on Aldabra island, more than the human population in the Seychelles! Other common sights are fruit bats, monkeys, and many different bright birds of the Seychelles. Underwater the marine life is endless, but we particularly got excited when we found stingrays and parrot fish on the ocean floor.''The forestry here is nothing short of amazing. The islands get plenty of rain so everything is just so gosh darn green and lush! Varying flora and fauna make up the vast majority of the islands. Any Google search of “Seychelles” will yield many results with large rocks positioned ever so perfectly in the Indian Ocean. These rocks are actually granite which are fragments of Gondwana, a supercontinent broken up 75 million years ago.''Craving Adventure?''If sitting on an unspoiled beach all day just doesn’t suit your fancy then there is plenty of outdoor activities to keep occupied. We enjoyed hiking through the jungle and found that to be one of the best things to do in the Seychelles. The views are 110% worth the effort and there is always something beautiful waiting around the corner.''Ziplining at SMAC Adventures''is also another great way to get the adrenaline pumping in the Seychelles. Located on Mahe at Constance Ephelia resort, these guys running the show here are fun, energetic, and can zip line across the jungle like monkeys.''Many resorts will offer body boards, stand up paddle boards, snorkel gear, and other various water activities to keep everyone active. On some of the more public beaches like Beau Vallon and Anse Royale, there is equipment to rent if you are not staying at a resort. I would recommend bringing some snorkel gear from home or buying it at a Supermarket if where you are staying does not have supply gear.''The Lovely Seychellois''The locals here are delightful and trustworthy. I mean, it’s hard to be a grumpy liar when you live in paradise. Needless to say, we found that mostly everyone had a smile on their face. Since the islands are so exclusive and cater to a different type of holiday goer, it seemed people were happy to have their home country at just the right tourism capacity. The locals speak Seychellois Creole, but English and French are widely understood.''General Advice for Visiting the Seychelles''Don’t arrive without a place booked or without proof of onward travel. You will be asked for both of these things at customs.''We''read on Wikitravel''that you must carry a large sum of cash on you to prove to customs you could afford your stay. We were not asked for this, nor was anyone else that we saw dealing with immigration.''A car is highly recommended if you want to travel around Mahe and don’t feel like dealing with the bus. We paid €35 a day for a pleasant compact car from Maki Car Rentals. Petrol is very affordable in the Seychelles as well. Driving at night is not for the faint of heart here. Crime isn’t really a problem, but no streetlights, mountainous roads, and people walking everywhere are. The whole island of Mahe is driveable in a couple of hours.''Are the Seychelles safe? A valid question as they lie right off the coast of East Africa. There is very little crime in the Seychelles and we felt safer traveling here than many places in the US,''Europe'', and even parts of Australia.''The Euro is a widely accepted form of currency, although the Seychellois rupee is the national currency.''There are plenty of small supermarkets on Mahe. We also found everything we could possibly need at a jumbo hypermarket to the south of Victoria.''The main airport is tiny and we found security to be a breeze. However, we arrived 55 minutes before our scheduled flight out and got grilled\xa0and threatened of missing our flight since we were not there one hour ahead. So don’t do that…''Mahe, Praslin, and La Digue are the three main islands for people to visit. Cat Coco’s ferries run between all of them.''Tap water in the Seychelles is safe to drink, but we went the extra mile and made sure we only drank the water from''our Lifestraw Go bottles''to be completely safe.''US Citizens can travel to the Seychelles visa-free up to 30 days. After that, visitors can apply for a visa extension of up to three months.''Check out the''Seychelles Tourism Board''website for more info.''Looking for more info on prices, here is a great''Seychelles Travel Guide''.''So where are the Seychelles? Never ask again now and just plan your trip!''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Flights to the Seychelles:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''picking up a Guide Book''to get you through the wireless nights.''You May Also Like''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''Where are the Seychelles? All About the Islands You HAVE to Visit''was last modified:''April 27th, 2018''by''Natasha''I’m going to preface this with most of these books about Africa will break your heart, but there are also extraordinary stories in them. Africa is humanity and nature at its rawest. It’s a continent home to some of the greatest natural features on earth and some of the worst atrocities in modern history. This is by no means a comprehensive list of books about Africa, of which there are many, but more simply a list of books to give you a taste. These are all written by more talented writers than myself and they are all from Africa. I promise you won’t find any Joseph Conrad (Heart of Darkness) on this list.''10 Books About Africa to Read''A Long Way Gone''I’m pretty much obligated to add this one to the top of this list of books about Africa because it is the first book Tasha and I read on here. Our first year in college our University bought thousands of the book, hosted the author, and gave everyone a free copy. The book follows the story of Ishmael Beah as he is taken up in Sierra Leonne as a child soldier. Ishmael must fight for his survival of not only his life but his soul.''You can find a copy here.''Half of a Yellow Sun''Half of a Yellow sun is by Nigerian author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and takes place during the Nigerian Civil War in the 1960’s. The story follows several characters as Nigeria fights to become an independent republic. The best way of describing the story is real. It is honest and takes the reader through hope, disappointment, love, and heartbreak.''You can find a copy here.''The Power of One''This story follows the journey of Peekay, a South African English boy who at five is sent away to boarding school. The story takes place at the onset of WWII, and as the war wages, Peekay is the victim of constant harassment from his Afrikaans counterparts. Through his eyes, we witness racial injustice and the perseverance of life. The story is about the power of self-preservation or the power of one.''You can find a copy here.''The Boy Who Harnessed The Wind: Creating Currents of Electricity and Hope''This is the true story of magic and ingenuity. Living in a village in Malawi 14-year-old William Kamkwamba had little access to electricity and water. However, he had read of windmills and the power which they can create. William set out to deliver running water and electricity to his village. A luxury that few Malawians had. At the discouragement of others, William continued to dream and pressed on delivering his goal.''You can find a copy here.''Purple Hibiscus''Purple Hibiscus follows the story of Kambili and her older brother Jaja. They are raised by a well-off family and a fanatically religious father. Kambili spend most of her life within her families compound, but when a military coup begins in Nigeria she is forced to abandon her home. Outside she finds the world full of freedom. However, when she returns she must strive to keep her family bonds together. The story is woven with beautiful prose that leaves me envious of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s talent.''You can find a copy here.''A Long Walk to Freedom''“As I finally walked through those gates to enter a car on the other side, I felt- even at the age of seventy-one- that my life was beginning anew. My ten thousand days of imprisonment were over.” -Nelson Mandela. What more can be said about Nelson Mandela? He is possibly one of the must influential and inspirational Africans to have lived. When Nelson Mandela passed away in 2013 it was a loss to the world. His autobiography covers the span of his life up until he becomes president of South Africa.''You can find a copy here.''They Poured Fire on Us From the Sky: The True Story of Three Lost Boys from Sudan''The true story of three Sudanese boys who fight for their survival. It recounts in their eyes the Second Sudanese War in 1987 and how they flee across Africa until they finally reach a refugee camp in Kenya where the struggle continues. They are then accepted as part of the Lost Boys of Sudan program in U.S. and continue their journey into America where they will face more adversity.''You can find a copy here.''Cutting For Stone''In this book about Africa, author Abraham Verghese is not your typical African, nor are his characters in his first novel Cutting For Stone. His story follows twin brothers who are born and orphaned in Ethiopia by their Indian and British Parents. It is a coming of age story about betrayal, love, grief, and forgiveness. The story touches on so many elements in such as politics, travel, sexual awakening, culture, and travel.''You can find a copy here.''Kaffir Boy: The True Story of a Black Youth’s Coming of Age in Apartheid South Africa''Mark Mathabane was born into the cruelty of Apartheid. His story begins in one of the worst South African ghettos and chronicles life with police raids and bloody gang violence. However, with the strength of his family, Mark earns an education and eventually is given a scholarship to an American University. Mark’s story is one of poverty and triumph.''You can find a copy here.''Left to Tell: Discovering God Amidst the Rwandan Holocaust''I am not religious, but that should stand as a testament to how incredible Immaculée Ilibagiza’s story is. Her autobiography recounts her own personal horrors as her home country of Rwanda is torn apart in 1994. The genocide that ensues consumes her family, friends, and those around her. Her strength and faith are awe inspiring. She most certainly was left with a story to tell, and one that should be read.''You can find a copy here.''Did I leave a book about Africa out?''Is there a book you read about Africa or by an African author you feel should be on this list? Drop me a message, I’ll give it a read and perhaps add it to the list. Or maybe you’re looking for something different? Check out our post on our the''the best travel movies''.''Read Next''The Best Safari Bags to Take to Africa''10 Africa Travel Blogs to Help You Plan Your African Adventure''These 20 Amazing African Lodges Will Have You Dreaming of Africa''Five African National Parks to Visit Before You Die''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''The Africa Packing List Items You’ll Want to Have • 2018 Update''January 22, 2018''10 Books About Africa You Should Read Before You Go''was last modified:''November 16th, 2017''by''Cameron''Looking for things to do in Crete? Years ago we were able to visit the biggest island in Greece. Traveling to Crete then was a Minoan dream that we had to fulfill before we left the Mediterranean. Three years later we found ourselves traveling the 260 km long island once again, in search of\xa0best things to do in Crete.''We traveled all over, from Stefanou Beach to the famous Pink Sand Beach and were never disappointed. The''Wikitravel page for Crete''states that “If there was a beauty contest for Greek islands,''Crete would surely be among the favorites''.” After visiting Crete, with its\xa0secluded bays, empty villages, deep valleys, and pink sand beaches we can attest that Wikitravel is right. The island is vast, stunning, rugged, and filled with friendly Cretans that may even be more hospitable than their mainland counterparts. It’s no wonder that the island is a top destination for''European holiday goers''. Here are some of our favorite things to do in Crete!''Things to Do in Crete, Greece''The first thing I need to note is that we were able to get to all these wonderful destinations in Crete because we had a rental car. Traveling around the island would be a serious hindrance if we were only relegated to public transport. Many of the secluded beaches and bays mentioned are only accessible by car. It’s good to note, that the terrain on the island varies so much that even if your GPS says something is 10km away, it can still take one hour to get to!''A word of caution…''Driving in Crete is not for the faint of heart. The roads are rugged, windy, and sometimes very narrow. It also seems that every Cretan has someplace to be and that\xa0your very presence is hindering them from getting to their next destination. Take caution and don’t say that I didn’t warn you. (''People here ride on the shoulder so their faster counterparts can whizz past.'')''The Four Different Regions of Crete''Crete is divided into four main regions and each has its own gems to be discovered.\xa0Click on any of the links to jump to that section.''Lasithi Prefecture''Chania Prefecture''Rethymno Prefecture''Heraklion Prefecture''Things to do in Lasithi''Lasithi is the least visited out of all the prefectures. However, Lasithi has a lot to offer visitors with its clear beaches, crisp mountain air, and\xa0undiscovered Greek villages.''Relax in Elounda''Elounda is well known for being the resort hub of Crete. If you have money, are a celebrity, honeymooner, or just plain fancy you may be staying somewhere in Elounda. Unfortunately, we aren’t any of these things, but we decided to venture around Elounda anyway. What we found after driving past all the resorts was a quiet pebble beach, with calm and clear waters to hang out in for the day with a great view looking out to the tiny island of Spinalonga.''Check out Lasithi Windmills''If you’re wondering what to do in Crete and want something different head to the Lasithi windmills. I found''images of the, on Pinterest''and immediately made sure we drove to the Lasithi Plateau\xa0while we were in Lasithi. The plateau has a couple of small, traditional Greek villages around, but the real draw here are the windmills. There must have been thousands\xa0of white-sailed windmills in this beautiful plateau back in the day. However, most are abandoned now in favor of modern technologies, but there are still a few that have the white sails on them and they make for great photos and good viewing.''Explore Agios Nikolaos''In the far east of Crete is the capital of Lasithi,\xa0Agios Nikolaos. It’s a great little town to explore and is definitely one of the least visited on the island. We enjoyed having a coffee along\xa0Mirabello Bay while gazing at the Sitia mountains.''What to do in Chania''We found all of the prettiest and vastly different beaches in Chania (pronounced HAN-YA). \xa0In my opinion, if you have only one region to visit in Crete, it should be Chania.''Bath in Balos Beach''This beach may be touristy, but it is the most beautiful touristy beach I have ever seen. To many, this is one of the top things to do in Crete and definitely one of the best beaches in Crete. Located on the very western tip of Crete past Kissamos is Balos Beach. Once you pay the €1 entrance fee per person to drive on the never-ending dirt road to the parking area, you must then walk down to Balos beach.''The entire way down you will have the most stunning view of Balos beach and all the different colors of blue that encompass it. Spending the day here is relaxing, cool, and idealistic. Save some drinking\xa0water, though, for the only way out is to walk up all the stairs you just came down. Don’t worry – you can ride a donkey up for about €5 if that fits your fancy. \xa0This is a must visit beach on the island of Crete.''Find Stefanou Beach''Warning – the drive to Stefanou Beach is heart-stopping and once you decide to take the path down to this beach there is absolutely no turning back. The road down is narrow, zig-zagged, and''straight down''. I literally thought we were going to die on our way down to Stefanou Beach.''However,''once we got to the parking area and saw this beach I forgot all about the\xa0drive because\xa0it was absolutely incredible. The fun doesn’t end once you get out of the car either, you still have to walk down 15 more minutes through rough terrain to get to to the sand, so bring some tennis shoes. Make sure to bring some snacks and drinks while you’re at it too, trust me, you don’t want to have the make the trek back up for goodies.''Either no one has heard of this beach, or people don’t want to make the hard trek to it because it was pretty isolated in terms of tourist. When we were here not a single person sunbathing was over 30 years old. Maybe it’s just the youngins who are willing to risk their lives for the sake of having a secluded beach. That’s why this was my favorite thing to do in Crete\xa0and''probably all of Greece for that matter''. I would even do the drive again just to spend another day here!''Get Pink at Elafonisi Beach''Do the beaches of Crete sound enticing yet? Well, I’m finally getting to that pink sand beach in Greece.\xa0 Make sure to spend at least one day at Elafonisi beach (that is what the pink sand beach is called). This beach is not too crowded, is situated next to a national park, and the sand is PINK. Okay, it’s not bright pink like some other places in the world, but in the sunlight, the sand sure does shimmer different hues of pastel pink. The pink sand is caused by the coral being broken down into tiny fragments. **Between Balos, Stefanou Beach, and Elafonisi beach, the pink sand beach is the easiest to get to by car (through paved mountain roads).''Go to Lake Kournas''The only fresh water lake in Crete lies in a valley among green, rolling hills. The lake isn’t massive, but it is worthy of a couple of a few hours stop to see the clear, blue, fresh water. The thing to do here is rent a paddle boat for €5 and enjoy the calm lake water.''Hike Samariá Gorge''This is a National Park of Greece and a main destination for tourists in Crete. It is arguably one of the best places to see in Crete and is many visitors favorite thing to do in Crete. Visitors can hike through the gorge\xa0from the Omalos plateau to Agia Roumeli. The hike takes five to seven hours depending on physical ability and how much you stop. Summers in Greece are very hot and very humid so make sure to start early and bring lots of water to avoid a terrible day.''Be smitten in white in Loutro''For the famous white washed houses that are so identifiable as “Greek” head to Loutro. Loutro is a\xa0small seaside village on the southernmost part of Chania. There aren’t many tourists here because Loutro can only be accessed by foot or boat. No cars, no large hotels, no overcrowded streets, just pure Greece.''Things to do in Heraklion''Most trips to Crete will start or end in the capital. Heraklion is home to the main port in Crete and also the largest airport on the island. Heraklion is the\xa0capital city and has all the capital city things for an island nation. A Starbucks,\xa0Archaeological Museum, and lots and lots of traffic. The city is a good place to visit for a day or so before jumping off to the rest of the prefecture.''Get the history in Knossos''Knossos is the largest archeological site on the island and is considered to be the oldest city in Europe. Knossos is situated very close to the capital and can easily be visited in a couple of hours. It’s definitely one the most interesting things to see in Greece! as the Palace of Knossos is undoubtedly the highlight of the archeological site and is where most Minoan political and ceremonial activity took place. \xa0If you are unaware of who the Minoan are, like I was, then just know that they were an Aegean Bronze Age civilization from Crete before Ancient Greece was even a thing. These Minoans are OLD, like 3600 B.C. old.''Party in Malia''Hailed as the party town of Crete, we made sure to try and steer clear of Malia. However, if partying is your thing then Malia is the place to go drink, eat, and party the night away with like-minded young British holiday goers. We accidentally drove through this town and couldn’t wait to get out. Crowds were sky high and I completely forgot I was in Greece and started to remember my early college days in Panama City Beach…and not in a good way.''Stroll around Chersonissos''Not far from the town of Heraklion lies Chersonissos. We didn’t find anything incredibly notable in Chersonissos but spent about a week here because it had some of the most affordable accommodation on Crete. Chersonissos has plenty of little Greek villages to stroll around before heading to the beach and makes for a great base to explore the rest of Heraklion.''Be like Zeus in Matala''It is said that Matala Beach is where Zeus swam ashore in the guise of a bull with Europa before having sex with her. Romantic. Matala Beach is a great base for exploring southern Crete. The beaches here are clean, the water pure blue, and there are impressive rock cliffs and caves to explore. Matala Beach is also known as a “hippie haven,” particularly from the 60’s when European hitchhikers and free spirits settled here.''Get drunk on a Winery Tour''Many of Cretes best wineries are situated in the Heraklion prefecture. We went to Lyrarakis Winery in\xa0Monofatsi village and had an excellent wine tasting with cheese for €10. However, with your own car, you can easily spend the whole day visiting all the different wineries in the region. Just make sure to have a designated driver to get you safely home on the Cretan roads!''Here is a good wine tour that will take care of all that for you!''Things to do in Rethymno''Located right in the center of the island, Rethymno (or Rethymnon), should not be missed. Rethymno’s old town is vibrant and full of life. Thes surrounding villages show off true Cretan hospitality.''Wander through Rethymno''Rethymno is a colorful coastal town with the best nightlife in Crete, and definitely worth a day or two of exploring. \xa0You can spend a whole day here just wandering through the alleyways and cobbled streets, snapping photos at each and every colorful building. If history is your thing then Rethymno is filled with ancient ruins, or just promenade along the harbor and pick from the plethora of restaurants to eat at.''Bask in the sun at Plakias Beach & Prevali Beach''It is here on the southern side of Rethymno prefecture that you will find a 1300 meter long sandy beach. Plakias\xa0is a small village nestled deep in the mountains and below the town is Plakias Beach, one of Cretes’ most famous nudist beaches. \xa0Of course, not the whole beach is for baring it all. In fact, a majority of the beach is where you can find families and your average sunbather. The southeastern end of the beach, near the Kakomouri headland, is the only part used by\xa0nudists. If you go farther past Plakias you will find Prevali beach. Prevali beach is a steep climb down and leads into a beautiful secluded little bay. Behind the beach are extensive rows upon rows of palm trees, of which Prevali beach is most known for.''Check out the clear waters of Bali Beach''Bali beach felt like it would have been a vacationer’s dream in the 80’s, now it is filled with hotels and tourists. However, it does boast incredibly clear waters and stunning cove beaches.''It doesn’t matter…''where you go in Crete. There is something to see in each nook and cranny of the island. Like previously mentioned, your best bet is to hire a vehicle and make sure it is a reliable car. A couple of these roads are among the worst we have ever been on before, and after driving through all these windy and bumpy roads for awhile, it just gets exhausting.''It’s also important to remember that everything in Crete is very spread out. We didn’t really take that into consideration when planning and quickly had to drop sites and certain beaches out of our day because it simply took too long to get to.''Don’t forget to eat while in Crete…''One of the best things to do in Crete is eat! The Cretans used to have one of the healthiest diets in all of the world (until eating fast food became more convenient and cool). The core traditional Cretan diet focuses mostly on food from natural sources from seasonal products. There are so many delicious foods to try that are not just the typical Greek fare. Here are some of our absolute Cretan favorites:''Fried snails''Cretan Raki''Fried Feta with Honey''Yogurt with Honey and Seasonal Fruit''Dakos''Olives and Olive Oil''In some ways, Crete doesn’t even feel like it’s part of Greece. The island is massive and truly acts like its own nation. Greek, Cretan, Minoan, or Alien – Crete is full of incredibly friendly people and that truly adore their island country. We could have spent years here and still would not have seen everything. So kick back and go to the lovely beaches, eat the delicious food, and meander through the traditional villages of Crete.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Greece''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Greece:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home in Greece we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Greece:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Greece perfectly fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet’s Greece Guide Book.''Adapter:''Remember that Greece uses the''Europlug''. Make sure you find a good adapter like the''one I have''to keep you charged. Otherwise, you may be paying for a cheap one once you land.''You May Also Like:''What to Wear in Greece on Your Vacation''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''15 Greece Travel Tips You Should Know Before You Go''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Epic Things to do in Crete, Greece''was last modified:''May 2nd, 2018''by''Natasha''The island of Crete is the largest Greek island, and quite possibly the most unique. It is not quite as alluring as Santorini or Mykonos. However, in Crete it is possible to step into small towns and villages where the 10,000th tourist of the day has yet to arrive by tour bus. While exploring the island''we rented a car''and were able to snap dozens of beautiful photos, enjoy traditional Cretan meals, fantastic wine, sweeping views, ancient ruins, and isolated bays. Even photos of Crete do not do it justice.''It is a beautiful island that requires some work to crack into its hidden gems.''Experiencing Crete requires escaping the mass tourism on the northern beaches of the island. All inclusive resorts, major hotels, beach bars, “Tavernas,” ATV rentals, and mega clubs all dominate this region as do many visiting Europeans who are anything, but Greek. However, with effort Crete holds some wonderful sights to be seen and experienced.''Want More of Crete?''We put together a detailed guide to experience the most of the island nation.''13 Photos That Will Make You Put Crete on Your Travel Radar''was last modified:''July 29th, 2016''by''Cameron''It should be no secret the Greek spirit and hospitality is world renowned. Greece has one of the most iconic cultures, histories, and\xa0geographies. Greece for us strikes a tender note, it is where''Tasha and I fell in love.''It launched years of future travel and this very blog. However, like\xa0every destination, there are a few things to know before you travel\xa0to Greece. Yes – that’s right before you engorge yourself on feta cheese, olives, wine, and dolmades\xa0you should take heed. We’ve compiled this list of our best Greece travel tips to help you out\xa0before you go, or if you’ve been or\xa0returning.''15 Greece Travel Tips''Maybe Tomorrow?''You need to relax here as things move at a glacial pace. This one goes without saying for pretty much everywhere in the region, but it rings especially true on the Greek Isles.''“Oh, it looks like your ferry failed to show up today, maybe it will show up tomorrow.” I’ll never forget our first trip through Greece when we heard this, and how nonchalant the ticket agent was.''Raki or Ouzo''Depending on what island you’re on you’ll either be drinking tsikoudia or ouzo. All of which is better than the Turkish Raki, or the''Balkans Rakija –''at least that’s what the Greeks will proudly announce. No proper Greek meal out with friends and family is complete without bottles upon bottles of Raki, whatever the local spirit is.''You can shoot it, sip it, or our favorite and possibly most popular way, mix it with water giving it a cloudy white appearance.''Yamas''! Which means “to our health” in Greek and is the way to cheers. Oh, for those Americans out there, the rest of the world makes eye contact when they cheers.\xa0It may be awkward at first, but can be achieved in a few cloudy nights.''Wear your\xa0stretchy pants''While we’re talking about meals out in Greece a proper meal out at a traditional taverna consists of meze. What is meze? It’s small plates similar to the Spanish tapas. Here you’ll receive plate, after plate, after plate of delicious food. You’ll get tzatziki, saganaki, feta, salads, lamb, chips, all sorts of grilled veggies, watermelon, \xa0calamari, and whatever else is in the kitchen. Did I forget to say lamb? **Side note pack a pair of pants that stretch and try not to\xa0gain too much weight.\xa0Read More about''what to pack for a vacation in Greece.''#Freethenipple''The Greek beaches are pretty famous for those looking to let loose. Although Greeks are Orthodox and tradition requires women dress sensibly, topless sunbathing remains socially acceptable throughout most of Greece. You’ll see all ages doing away with those annoying bikini top\xa0tan-lines, and on a number of beaches, you’ll find full naturists beaches catering to those that really feel like letting it all hang out.''You should always be aware of your surroundings, typically this is done at the outer edges of beaches or the less crowded ones. So, pack your thong and get ready for a full-fledged sun-kissed body.''Give me a word and I’ll trace its meaning to Greek''For those of you who haven’t seen the cult hit,''My Big Fat Greek Wedding,''you should know the father of the movie famously states that he can trace the root of any word in English to its Greek origin. Now, this is of course not true, but it illustrates just how proud the Greeks are of their history. Which\xa0is a great one at that. They gave us democracy and modern philosophy, after all.''There are going to be some old buildings''Greece is filled with ancient ruins, medieval ruins, and buildings that easily date back to the turn of the century. Pretty much no matter where you step you’re going to find some piece of history. Take it in doses, because it can overwhelm you. Many of these archaeological sites are very well protected and restored in Greece; tourism is a big factor in this and you should expect to pay some €€€ to see the most famous sites. For example, the''Acropolis\xa0costs a whopping €30 for the full experience''.''Check Greek tours here!''Frappe or Fredo Cappuccino''These are the two drinks of choice when it comes summer time. Sure, the Greek coffee is famous and we love it. However, a local will not be\xa0caught\xa0with\xa0one when it’s 35°C outside. In the summer Greeks drink frappes, a cold Nescafe that is topped with foamed milk and sugar.''Our personal favorite is a Fredo Cappuccino, which is espresso poured over ice then topped with cold-foamed milk. A frappe at a good takeaway price should cost €1 and a Fredo Cappuccino €1.50, if you find yourself paying more it better be sit down service or you’re getting the tourist price.''Hope you don’t get car sick easily''If you’re planning to get around the islands or mainland of Greece you’ll quickly learn that the country is very rough terrain. Meaning that roads wind back and forth and back and forth. They can be fun for the first thirty minutes, but after driving for two hours they can be exhausting.''Be sure to take breaks if you’re driving yourself around, often stopping in the little villages along the way can be some of the most rewarding travel moments. Views along the\xa0roads are also stunning, and you will\xa0need to pull over to\xa0take it all in and''grab some photos.''Get out of the way''Driving in Greece is not like driving anywhere else in the EU. Here you ride in the shoulder of the road so those going 60km over the speed limit can fly by. We’re not even sure if there is a speed limit on most Greek roads for that matter, asides from the few national highways. With all the speeding you’d think they’d slow it down along all the narrow and windy roads, but that just isn’t going to happen.''These Greeks have places to be and were born to drive on their crazy roads. After all is said and done driving in Greece can be extremely rewarding and I even learned to drive stick on those crazy roads. So, this is an easy addition to our Greece travel tips; rent a car and blend in with the locals (''or at least get out of the way'').''No one does hospitality like the Greeks''Between the Balkans,''Turkey, and Greece you will find some of the friendliest people who take hospitality seriously. We are always astounded at just how far the Greeks will go. They have this knack for making you go,''wow!''And the most amazing part, especially coming from America, is that feels genuine. It isn’t some formality to the Greeks – it is a tradition and one they are fiercely proud of. When you are a guest in the hands of a Greek you will undoubtedly be taken care of.''Yasas or Yasu''You should probably learn to say hello in Greek. They are proud of their culture and language and it means a great deal if you extend the olive branch and greet them in Greek even if you can’t speak a bit more. “Yassas” is the formal greeting and “yasou” is the informal singular. You will also find these words are much more fun than then just saying “hello.” I would recommend picking up a''Greek language book''if you want to learn a few more words.''The more appropriate setting for a show named Baywatch''Now, you will find some pretty attractive people frolicking along the Greek beaches, but that’s not what I’m referring to. Instead, I mean to talk about the abundance of gorgeous''Mediterranean bays''. The Greeks were historically sea-faring people, largely because of the Greek archipelago and the numerous deep water bays that could harbor their ships.''These small bays are no longer used for harboring ships, but make for a wonderful place to go for a swim (or for the adventurous, cliff jumping). These bays are our favorite place to go for a dip instead of some of the more crowded beaches. They take more work to travel\xa0to and they are\xa0very small, but you’re almost always rewarded with serenity.''Hop in loser we’re going to the next island''When exploring the''Greek Isles''expect to be subjected to the mercy of slow and sometimes late ferry schedules. The islands are spread apart and you can’t just hop on a train to the next one. Ferries are the best way to travel between the islands and are your primary form of transportation unless you can afford to shell out money to take flights everywhere.''RIP Credit Card Points''We love to use''our travel rewards credit cards''; however, in Greece, we leave our cards in our wallets. Why? In case you’ve been living under a rock the Greek financial market has seen better days. This has left harsh stipulations on cash withdrawals and transfers for Greek bank accounts.''In other words, you can hold off on\xa0your credit cards points and pay your friendly Greek hosts with cash. After all, their livelihood depends upon it, yours does not. Read more about our''travel banking tips!''Go Greek''This should go without saying, but while in Greece you should eat and enjoy as many great local Greek products as you can. Here the yogurt is just that – yogurt. And the yogurt in Greece is among some of the best you will ever taste. “Greek yogurt,” as it is referred to in the U.S. was simply a marketing tactic employed by''Chobani that paid off big and changed the American yogurt market.''Greece also has some fantastic white wine. A word to the wise, when selecting a vineyard to visit or buy from find those that\xa0are situated in the mountainous regions. Greece is hot, and that doesn’t make for great wine; however, in the right spots on the\xa0islands the microclimates in mountainous areas can produce some great white\xa0wines.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Greece''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Greece:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home in Greece we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Greece perfectly fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet’s Greece Guide Book.''Adapter:''Remember that Greece uses the''Europlug''. Make sure you find a good adapter like the''one I have''to keep you charged. Otherwise, you may be paying for a cheap one once you land.''Read Next:''30 Adventure Quotes Sure To Ignite Your Wanderlust''13 Photos That Will Make You Put Crete on Your Travel Radar''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''What to Wear in Greece on Your Vacation''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Greece Travel Tips to Know • A Greece Travel Blog''was last modified:''April 19th, 2018''by''Cameron''When I''studied abroad in Australia''some time back, I knew I just had to go\xa0scuba diving in the Great Barrier Reef. \xa0My friends and I set it all up, but when the time came to actually scuba dive everyone panicked. Scuba diving for your first time can be a nerve-wrecking experience. \xa0I mean – you’re willingly diving deep\xa0underwater with heavy equipment where you can not breathe. It sounds scary! I often\xa0tell people that scuba diving was one of the most daunting\xa0adventures during my travels, so I knew I had to give it another shot in Greece.''Scuba Diving with Waterhoppers Rhodes''The day started at Mandraki Harbor in Rhodes Old Town at 9 am. Cameron and I made our way to The Waterhoppers dive boat, the “Katerina,” for a day of sun, fun, and fearlessness. We boarded our vessel and were immediately welcomed by the staff from around the world. With about 30 other adventure seekers we were given an overview of all the necessary safety precautions and “need to know” hand signals underwater. All while making our way to our dive spot. \xa0I distinctly took note of one hand signal in particular. Do not to give a thumbs up to say you are “Okay,” it means you want to go the surface. An easy mistake for us Americans whose national hand gesture is the thumb.''We anchored\xa0in Kalithea Bay, our home for the day.\xa0Kalithea means “beautiful view” in Greek and that is exactly what we had the entire time diving.''Waterhoppers Dive School''actually has their own private dive station where the boat moors,\xa0so it is just the crew and passengers enjoying the beautiful bay for seven hours.''Just a tad bit goofy looking''We were set to go for two dives for the day, the first was a beginner dive. It was Cameron’s first-time scuba diving and only my second, which was years ago. We suited up, waited for the staff to put on our tanks and were ready to go for our first dive of the day! \xa0Despite being scared in Australia, this time around was a complete breeze.We went about 5 meters underwater for the first dive and had great visibility.\xa0Cam and I knew we were in great hands the whole time and could not have felt more at peace with the sea. We also felt great knowing that if anything went wrong the Waterhoppers team was floating 5 meters above us watching.''After the first dive, we couldn’t wait to get back in the water to go for longer and deeper. The second dive was much smoother, less awkward, and was where I felt comfortable enough to''pull out our GoPro''and get some great underwater shots. We saw a plethora of beautiful marine life during this time like bream,\xa0damselfish, rock fish, and pipe fish. We had our hopes set on seeing an octopus or barracuda, but no dice.''Although we would have liked to see an octopus swimming gracefully\xa0by us while underwater, it was okay that we didn’t. We had such a fantastic time scuba diving in the Mediterranean that we are looking into getting PADI\xa0certified soon! Scuba diving was initially scary for us, but after about one minute we were instantly hooked and very quickly got over our fear. I don’t know why it took me so long to try it again after diving in Australia. Now we are eager to dive during our African adventure this year in Mozambique. Stay tuned!''Good to Know''Waterhoppers has dive trips every day but Sunday and takes off at 9am from Mandraki Habour in Rhodes Town.''Average water depth for dive is 10 – 15m''This is the Mediterranean so expect extremely clear waters with\xa0visibility\xa0around 20m+''Common marine life:\xa0bream, damselfish, rock fish, flounders, pipe fish, octopus''Maybe you will see: Mediterranean barracuda, monk seals, turtles, nudibranch''Average Water Temperatures: 19°C to 30°C''Current is\xa0very weak to nonexistent''Recommended for a day of Scuba Diving?''Swimsuit''Towel''Change of clothes''Sunscreen''Drinking Water and lunch (There are snacks on the Katerina as well)''A good book to read while other groups are diving''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Greece''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Greece''Booking.com''has almost\xa05,000 \xa0properties in Greece\xa0including hotels, apartments, and guesthouses. You get free cancelation on certain rooms and a best price guarantee. We have a Genius account and it saves us 10% on eligible bookings. Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in Greece:''Crete'',''Corfu'',''Santorini'',''Rhodes'',''Mykonos'', and''Athens''.''Flights to\xa0Greece''Skyscanner''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Car Rental in\xa0Greece''Economybookings.com''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Have you been Scuba Diving or are you PADI certified? Let’s Talk!''Thank you to Waterhoppers for this experience! As always, all opinions remain our own''Scuba Diving and Overcoming Fear with Waterhoppers Rhodes''was last modified:''January 1st, 2017''by''Natasha''Chicago, the Windy City, is one of the most iconic American cities. Long overshadowed by New York City, it has fought fiercely to create just as distinct an identity of its own. Chicago is a sports city, a foodie’s haven, a home for the arts, and the birthplace of American architecture. It’s a city that would take a lifetime to understand, but you don’t have a lifetime — you have an evening. So what do you do with just a few hours?''Only A Couple Hours?''There is so much more to Chicago than its bustling city center, but with only a couple hours, you don’t have time to delve too deep. Staying at a downtown Chicago hotel will give you the opportunity to discover many of the Windy City’s treasures in a short amount of time.''Millennium Park''Taking a selfie in the reflection of the Bean is a rite of passage when visiting Chicago. The Bean is a large metallic public art installation, named Cloud Gate but nicknamed the Bean for its shape. The Bean is located in Millennium Park, a public space filled with gardens, pedestrian walkways, and art installations. The park was commissioned to celebrate the new millennium and was finished in 2004. Over the years, it has become a celebrated accomplishment of urban planning and art, giving locals and tourists another wonderful place to play in the Windy City.''Image via''Flickr''by Sergey Gabdurakhmanov''“Da Cubs”''Not to snub the White Socks, Bulls, Blackhawks, or Bears — but baseball is America’s pastime, and the Cubs are Chicago’s team. When given the chance, there’s nothing more American than heading to''Wrigley Field for baseball'', beer, and hotdogs — Chicago style.''What’s For Dinner?''Chicago is a foodie’s haven. There is no shortage of culinary delights in the Windy City. In Chicago, you have access to everything from Michelin Star restaurants to dive bars and food trucks. A great starting point is to check in with your hotel front desk and ask what the staff members recommend based on your preferences — or just head to Alinea or to Girl & the Goat.''Alinea''If you’re looking for fine dining in Chicago, you certainly have it with Alinea. This three–Michelin Star restaurant has been serving customers since 2005. Chef Grant Achatz delivers New American–tasting dishes with a minimalist spin and creative plating.''Girl & the Goat''Top Chef winner Stephanie Izard, the chef of''Girl & the Goat'',\xa0has been serving up small plates from dishes around the world in a relaxed atmosphere with plenty of character since 2010. This place is quirky, cool, and delicious and has become a staple of Chicago eats.''Night on the Town?''The Second City''New York may have SNL, but Chicago gives birth to its brightest\xa0stars at the Second City, a Chicago comedy club. The list is too long to name them all, but Bill Murray, Stephen Colbert, Tina Fey, Dan Akroyd, Mike Myers, John Candy, Joan Rivers, and the Belushi brothers have all performed here, among many others. It’s an institution that is sure to deliver a night of sparkling live comedy.''Scofflaw''If you’re looking for a good cocktail, Scofflaw is certainly a good place to head. It specializes in gin cocktails, craft beers, and some tasty but inexpensive eats. The bar serves up drinks in a comfortable and chic environment perfect for a cocktail.''Lay Your Head Down''Chicago certainly has no shortage of hotels, with rooms to accommodate everyone’s needs. We’ve suggested before, in our''how to save on accommodations''post, that booking directly with hotels or signing up for their newsletters often leads to scoring a deal. We suggest staying at the boutique Kimpton hotels by IHG, which are a personal favorite of ours.''Whether you are on a long layover or a business trip, Chicago is sure not to disappoint even if you only have a few hours to explore.''What to Do with Only a Couple Hours in Chicago''was last modified:''November 2nd, 2017''by''Cameron''Singapore has long been on my travel bucket list. Given its location in Southeast Asia and large world class international airport, Singapore makes for a great city-state for a long and enjoyable layover. The skyscrapers, nightlife, cleanliness, and beautiful architecture make Singapore ideal for any traveler to enjoy. However, Singapore is a massive city and even leaving the airport to go explore can be quite daunting.''Book You Hotel in Advance''Accommodation in Singapore is known to be quite expensive.\xa0Book your Singapore hotel near the city center in advance to get the best bang for your buck. There are many hotels in Singapore to choose from, so always make sure to read the reviews beforehand to make sure you get exactly what you are looking for. It’s always important for me to have fast and free Wi-Fi, a comfortable bed, and a good location. After checking into your hotel, take a walk around''Singapore’s ethnic neighborhoods!''Pack Accordingly''The lowest recorded temperature on record in Singapore was 68°F! Needless to say, the country is hot and stays hot all year round. Remember to pack accordingly and always check the weather forecast ahead of time. You don’t want to be that person sweating beneath your sweater with the sun beating down on you.''{''Read More:''The Ultimate Singapore Travel Guide}''Visit the Gardens by the Bay''It’s hard to write about Singapore and not mention the stunning Gardens by the Bay. Not just your typical garden, this Singaporean institute has supertrees, magical light shows, and over 700,000 tropical flowers. \xa0The outdoor gardens are\xa0open from 5 a.m. to 2 a.m.\xa0every day.\xa0The best part? The outdoor gardens are FREE!''Image via''Flickr''by Kai Lehmann''Test Your Superpowers and Float on\xa0Air''Have you ever floated on air? Chances are you probably haven’t, but now at the''Palm Avenue Float Club''you can! Floating on air helps the human brain reset, de-stresses the body, and is the ultimate deep relaxation treatment.''Try the\xa0Chili Crab''Imagine an entire crab cooked in a sweet and spicy tomato\xa0sauce until completely tender, finished with a blend of scrambled eggs. To me, this sounds like seafood heaven and it is one of the main dishes in Singapore. For any crab lover, leaving the country without trying this messy dish would be a crime. Wondering where to get quality Chili Crab? Try\xa0Meliben Seafood\xa0at Ang Mo Kio Avenue for the famous dish and an even wider selection of other crab plates.''Party at the Highest rooftop bar in the world''You may think that New York City has the highest bar in the world, but it is actually Singapore that holds the title.\xa01-Altitude is 282 meters\xa0high and obviously showcases the best 360° views of Singapore. As you can imagine, prices are high and there is a “smart casual” dress code so don’t roll in with flip flops.''So, If you’re ready for a bit of luxury along with relaxation and nature, then book your hotel in Singapore and start packing.''How to Make the Most Out of Your Trip to Singapore''was last modified:''November 2nd, 2017''by''Natasha''We just finished our first of many''Mediterranean''vacations sailing along the Turkish coast. Our journey began in Marmaris, Turkey with''MedSea Yachts''and over the course of a week we had an experience that we can add to our list of things to do before you die. Our week long\xa0sailing along the coast of Turkey and into Greece consisted of sleeping in tranquil bays, diving into turquoise waters, and dining al fresco under the stars. The Gulet is a unique ship to Turkish waters and is all about catering to the passenger’s needs, making for a splendid experience of relaxation at it’s prime.''Mediterranean Vacations on a Gulet''A gulet is a two or three masted wooden ship that traditionally comes from the southwestern coast of Turkey.\xa0The gulet is a purpose built ship\xa0for ferrying\xa0passengers along the stunning\xa0Turkish coast. Taking a gulet cruise is all about pleasure and nothing like sailing on a smaller sailboat. The allure of these boats is the wood, they’re gorgeous and''constructed entirely out of the material''. The wood is then varnished and polished to a point where they glisten in the sunny Mediterranean weather.\xa0With all that glistening wood the ships shift in\xa0colors with the day as the sun moves across the sky.\xa0These ships are seriously photogenic, we personally found it hard to resist snapping lots of photos.''Most gulets operate on a charter basis, meaning you rent the boat, crew, gas, and full board outright. The route is largely based up to the client, but the charter company more often than not can create a custom itinerary to cater to the interests of their client. It is the client’s home for the week. Some gulets offer cabin sailing in which they sell cabins similar to how a cruise ship operates. The schedules for these vary and it is often best to contact the provider if interested, like''MedSea Yachts''.''Our ship: The ES Canada''One of the largest gulets out there is at home in the MedSea fleet and features a large salon, spacious en-suite rooms, two dining tables at forward and aft, and a large sun deck with enough room for everyone on board. The ES Canada was\xa0once named the One-Star and had hosted a number of Turkish celebrities; however, after falling into a little bit of disrepair it was restored to its glory by the owners of MedSea Yachts. All we can say is that it was a job well done, because the ES Canada is a beautiful sailing vessel and held on course by a well-seasoned captain.''The ES Canada is 30 meters long and can accommodate 16 passengers with 8 ensuite cabins. It is certainly no little vessel.''Click an Image to Enlarge''MedSea Yacht Team''We trusted the advice of fellow''bloggers at Vagrants of the World''and contacted MedSea Yachts with an interest in taking up a voyage with them. A couple months later and we were in Marmaris on our way to meet Eileen & Cengis who head up the MedSea Team. Eileen is a Canadian and wouldn’t you know it one of the friendliest people we’ve ever met on the road. Our captain, Cengis, is a figure within the gulet community of southwestern Turkey and has decades of experience. He’s even sailed a gulet all the way to the Maldive Islands! With the two of them and their professional crew we felt right at home for our week of relaxation.''Mediterranean Vacations & Week long charters''We had a week long charter which is the standard for gulet charters in the region. The two main ports of charter are Marmaris and Bodrum. Bodrum tends to be the posher city with high\xa0prices and more private gulets and yachts, a city\xa0known for the Turkish elite. Marmaris on other hand is famous for British tourists and those looking to charter a gulet for the week to go out and explore the beautiful Marmara peninsula. The majority of gulet cruises leave on Saturday afternoon and return the following Saturday; However, given enough notice most operators will be able accommodate a personalized schedule. You are chartering the boat out for a week or more, your crew will gladly sail to wherever you see fit or give you some great advice on where to go. If you go with a good crew such as MedSea yachts, you don’t have to plan out your trip. We particularly enjoyed this as it allowed us to be surprised by different stops during the week.''Sailing Through Idealistic Bays on a Perfect Mediterranean Vacations''Our gulet cruise spent a short amount of time in Marmaris, before\xa0we were on our way out to explore the beautiful coastline. The waters along the coast\xa0are crystal clear and as you move through various bays, channels, and coves the water turns from deep blue, to turquoise, to aqua, and then to teal. Sailing along the coastline of this region of Turkey is really the only way to experience the many bays, small islands, and beaches that are only reachable by boat. You really get the chance to take in the famous coastline covered in pine trees and historical ruins chiseled into the cliff faces.''Read More'': {''Reasons To Put The Greek Island of Crete on Your Bucket List''}''A\xa0Personal Chef''Once on board all food is\xa0taken care of by the boats chef and deckhand. Our Turkish chef, cooked us dishes from the region, and some of the best calamari we’ve ever had. Also, the\xa0aubergine with garlic yoghurt is delicious and healthy. \xa0We love many things about the Mediterranean, but their healthy diet has to be one of the best in the world. Most\xa0gulet cruises come with a chef who can cook you three square meals a day. We enjoyed a pleasant breakfast, lunch, afternoon tea (çay in Turkey), and dinner on the aft and bow of the boat allowing us to fully enjoy the beauty of our\xa0settings.''Release Your Inner Sun-Goddess and Enjoy the Sea''One of our (Tasha’s) favorite things aboard our gulet cruise were the sun beds on the top deck. With the splendid Mediterranean weather we had plenty of time to lay on some of the comfiest sun beds, read a book, and catch a tan. It didn’t stop there though, when the sun went down we took our big comfy blankets back to the roof to sleep under the stars for a unique experience. It’s easy to fall asleep counting the stars with the sound of gentle waves rocking you\xa0goodnight.''From swimming, snorkeling, diving, water-skiing, kayaking, and windsurfing there were a ton of water sports activities to keep us\xa0entertained. I personally had a blast\xa0practicing my\xa0dives from the top of the boat.''While, Tasha had plenty of fun recreating childhood memories as Ariel from the little mermaid.''Greek Islands and Turkish Villages''One\xa0of the biggest highlights of a cruise on a gulet is pulling into a new port. Those of you who have taken a cruise on a massive boat are likely familiar with the disembarkation on a cruise ship with the hundreds of other passengers, various tours, and touts. On a personal ship like a gulet you motor calmly into a small port town, dock the boat and hop off in only minutes. You visit smaller ports and islands that larger ships often have to pass over. The Greek island and port of Symi was without a doubt a highlight of the trip and pulling into the colorful bay embodied the picturesque Greek spirit. Meanwhile, the port town of Selimiye was a stunner in Turkish waters.''Read More:''{''15 Things To Know Before Going to Greece''}''Spending an afternoon or two in the small port towns make for some of the best\xa0experiences of the week, and it allows you to get your land legs back. Our\xa0afternoons were spent exploring the colossal old town of Rhodes, sipping on Turkish/Greek Coffee (is there really a difference?), strolling along waterfront promenades, and\xa0relaxing in an awesome hammock.''Read More:''{''The Ultimate Guide to Milos Island''}''“Too Fast”''That’s all you can say after a week sailing along the coast – that it went by way too fast. Waking up every morning to a full Turkish breakfast, the sound of the open sea, and soaking in the sun was the epitome of relaxation. The hardest part of\xa0everyday was deciding whether to jump into the refreshingly cool Mediterranean waters.''Read More:''{''Stunning Photos of Greece in Today’s Day and Age''}''Thank you to MedSea Yachts for this Mediterranean Vacation! As always all opinions are our own.''You May Also Like:''Affordable Yachting in the Mediterranean with MedSea Yachts''was last modified:''July 25th, 2017''by''Cameron''Two Weeks of Slovenian Food Along The Kolpa''We spent two weeks along the Kolpa River, enjoying fresh local Slovenian food products, the countryside, and the teal colored river. The Bela Krajina region, like the rest of Slovenia, is fertile and produces plenty of great regional specialties.''Our hosts at Big Berry''were sure to take advantage of a wide range of the local cuisine\xa0and suppliers in the area. In addition to enjoying the wonderful river, we spent our days visiting these local purveyors.''Ghee, It’s Magical''Our favorite Slovenian food product\xa0highlighted by camp was also its closest to home–made by one our lovely host, Peter. Ghee itself is pretty much magic. What is it?''Golden Ghee is clarified butter''that has been cooked for 48 hours to separate all the fat of butter from the proteins, lactose, water, carbohydrates, casein, and impurities. The finished product is culinary gold and has a long history of being a cherished food product. It’s rich in flavor, is healthy, and has a wide range of uses beyond cooking. Did I mention that while Golden Ghee is being cooked it gets its own personal concert–meaning they play music just for the ghee to soak up all that musical awesomeness.''Craft Beer is Here''Another local and emerging business in the region is''the Vizir Brewery''. What does a winery do when they’re in a saturated market? Diversify. Vizir started out as a\xa0winery, but as they grew in size they decided maybe it was time for a change and began brewing beer. Craft beer is something we’ve come to know and love in the states, but in Slovenia, it’s almost impossible to find. We were lucky enough to be given a tasting of all their great beers produced in Slovenia by the owner/head brewer himself. We suggest trying their buckwheat beer and a fresh cold one from the tank.''Happy Hemp''Kmetija Kočevar\xa0was kind enough to show us a selection of his locally grown and produced hemp products from Bela Krajina. Hemp has to be one of the most versatile plants out there with a slew of health benefits. Some of the fine products we got to try were an herbal liquor,\xa0oil, flour, and freshly baked bread all from hemp. As part of our goodbye, we even used some of the hemp flour delivered to us in the morning to cook up some goodbye American flapjacks.''Read More:''[''Is Eating Organic Really Healthier?]''Heart Healthy Oils''Speaking of oil there was always a nice supply of heart-healthy oils while we camped along the Kolpa. Most of our oils were cold pressed from the local producer Oljarna Perčarič. The oil mill produces a wide range of oils all from healthy organic products. However, the star of the show was their award winning walnut oil, that was simply delicious and had a slew of uses such as''Inspired to see more of Slovenia?''Check out the 10 most beautiful places to see in the country!''You’re The Apple Of My Eye''The local juices supplied by Lamut, are cold pressed with apples only found within the region giving a truly unique flavor.We have a confession we probably drank one of these a day and by one, we mean two…maybe three. \xa0The owner also served up a delicious meal of river trout from their''family run restaurant set in the countryside''. The fresh river trout, salad, potatoes, and pogača bread were delicious,\xa0and if they represent traditional Slovenian food we were impressed.''The fresh, Slovenian food\xa0products never came to an end!''It went from local businesses, family-run restaurants, and locals who graciously took us in and showed us a piece of what Bela Krajina has to offer. The whole area is rich in honey, wonderful bread, juices, arts, history, rakija, wine, produce, GHEE, and artisanal products that anyone can enjoy.''{''Read more about Slovenian Cuisine on Wikipedia…''}''Favorite Food\xa0and Drink\xa0to try''Golden Ghee''Pogača bread''River Trout''Buckwheat beer from Vizir''Rakija''Fresh yogurt from Kmetija Štrucelj''Hemp Flour''Walnut Oil from Oljarna Perčarič''Thank you to Big Berry for making this trip possible. As always, all opinions are our own.''Slovenian Food and Drink You Gotta Taste At Big Berry''was last modified:''December 30th, 2016''by''Cameron''Cappadocia, Turkey in photos''This is the first of our latest series of posts, in which we feature photographs from destinations around the world. This post\xa0is the incredible Cappadocia Turkey.''C''appadocia is a region that is unique. We first made our adventure to Cappadocia, Turkey in November of 2016. There is an undeniable\xa0atmosphere to it that feels as if it from another planet. It’s the sort of place that is hard to fully describe in pictures and text. With its extensive network of trails, forgotten churches, ruins, and caves it is easy to get lost in this “other\xa0world.” The whole region\xa0seemed to change within one day as the dry November air made for drastic changes of light and splendid photographs. It was a place that even after we left, we knew we’d have to return some day again. To put it simply we’d never been surrounded by geography that felt more foreign. So here it is, our Cappadocia pictures.''Pigeon Valley''These pictures were produced using:''Our Trusty Canon 5D Mkiii:''Check the price here''!''And of course our GoPro:''Check the price here''!''{''Read more about our favorite GoPro Accessories here''}''Want More on Cappadocia?''To learn more about visiting Cappadocia check out our''post here about visiting\xa0the region on a budget''. We found it to be extremely cheap in the off-season as we stayed in empty cave hotels.''Lonely Planet Turkey (Travel Guide)''List Price:''$27.99''Price Disclaimer''Cappadocia Pictures From A Week Long Adventure''was last modified:''September 12th, 2016''by''Cameron''Excited. Nervous. Terrified.''That’s how I felt when I\xa0was 21 traveling around the world. I had no idea what I was doing, and that was okay.''Everyone has to start somewhere right.''I used to be the one who would\xa0ask whomever I could for travel advice – any advice that they spared was\xa0much appreciated.''Now, as we travel all around the world we are the ones getting asked for our best travel tips.I thought we should share a few of our tips for newbie travelers getting started on their around the world travels.''My Best Travel Tips For Your Next Trip''Always check for your passport and phone''This one is one of my very best travel tips. What are your two most important travel accessories? Whether you are traveling with your grandma’s cookbook, Rose’s Heart of the Ocean, or your favorite pair of jeans\xa0the number one thing you do not want to lose is your passport. It’s small, it’s expensive, it’s a legal document, it’s your means to travel, and it means you can get home.''Always check that you have it. My second most important travel accessory is my phone. It gets me from point A to point B, allows me to check my emails, and holds some pretty precious photos. Knock on wood that I never lose these two small items during my travels. That’s why\xa0after every bus, plane, and train ride I habitually check to make sure they are still on me.''Download an offline version of the area you are in on Google Maps''Did I mention that my phone gets me around a new city? I would love to credit my impeccable map reading skills, but in reality, I usually rely on''Google Maps to determine\xa0my location''. Whenever possible, Cameron and I download\xa0offline versions of these maps which let the app run smoothly without WiFi.''Americans should invest the time to get a Charles Schwab Debit Card''American’s traveling abroad should invest the time to get a''Charles Schwab Checking Account and Debit Card.''The card doesn’t incur any ATM fees from Charles Schwab, receives an even exchange rate, and it reimburses ATM fees from banks worldwide, making it the most important card in our wallet. \xa0Personally, I feel vulnerable walking around with a ton of cash. We have never been robbed, but if we are I don’t want to lose an arm and a leg''.''Sometimes we may have to access an ATM more than once a day, but we don’t care because we have this card! There are no monthly service fees, and no minimum account balances – so there is no excuse not to get one.''Check out more of travel banking tips.''Student ID’s are gold''The third\xa0most important card in our wallet is our Student ID. Sure, it may be nine years old and showcase us at our worst but damn does it get us some serious discounts. \xa0If you look relatively “student aged” then make sure to always bust the card out in museums, train stations, and special events. Some places will require you to be from a certain region, but it never hurts to try!''Avoid currency exchange offices whenever possible''I can count the amount of times we have used currency exchange offices on one hand. They typically give crap exchange\xa0rates and have hidden fees – we avoid them like the plague. We get our cash from the ATM for the very best rates. Our minds are always thinking about the amount foreign currency we carry. We never leave a country with leftover currency even if it means buying an unnecessary trinket at the airport.''Always ask for a metered cab fare or agree on a set price beforehand''It doesn’t matter what part of the globe you’re around the world travels take you. A cab can be\xa0one of the best ways to get scammed.\xa0To avoid overpaying or being scammed it’s important to always ask for the meter to be turned on or agree to a set price beforehand.''Know the exchange rate before landing''I will never forget meeting a traveler that went to Mcdonalds in Dubai, ordered his meal, figured 100 UAE Dirhams couldn’t be that much and ate away. I hope it was the best Big Mac he ever tasted because the burger ended up costing $26! \xa0Always have a general idea of exchange rates before arriving at your destination, we use the''XE Currency Converter''application on our phones to stay up to date on currency fluctuations.''Do your research beforehand''If you’re on a budget, go around and check out prices in your new destination before purchasing anything. Take a gander into a couple shops, ask around for current prices, and even research online the correct price of things. I kick myself when I find out I pay a “tourist” price when I could have been paying the fair local price for things. This tip is big for food and drink costs.''Don’t judge a book by its cover''Yes, this age old saying also applies to travel destinations. Bus stations are almost always located outside the main city centers, and sometimes train stations can be located in some downright dodgy locations. There have been countless times when we have got off\xa0our bus and thought\xa0“this place doesn’t look that great.”''It’s important not to let first impressions get the best of you and to delve into a new destination a few days before labeling it undesirable. For example, we’ve heard from many people that Napoli isn’t a total skip in Italy, but we found it to be''one our favorite destinations in the boot-shaped country.''Get a credit card''And a travel related one at that. Our favorites for Americans are the Capital One Venture, Barclay World Elite, Citi ThankYou, and the Chase Sapphire Preferred. We never pay foreign transaction fees, can dispute false charges easily, and rack in some serious airline and hotel points.''If there is a washing machine – use it''One of the most\xa0dreaded tasks while traveling long term is washing clothes. It’s always a hassle and is never ever fun to take time out of your day to do laundry while exploring a new city, and I’ve never met anyone who feels comfortable paying to wash their clothes starting at $13 a pair of socks at a hotel.''Free washers are a rare find, but should never be passed up. If a hotel or hostel offers cheap laundry service, we typically take them up on it, no matter the amount of dirty clothes we have. We do our wash about every three weeks, and when that time comes we try to specifically seek out''a good Airbnb''with a washer or service.''Don’t be the disrespectful American, Aussie, Brit…etc''Don’t be the loud, drunk, or insensitive vacationer that disrespects\xa0the locals and trashes a foreign city. We once got yelled at by a local in the Baltics for speaking English to each other. Chances are it was just some cranky woman…or maybe she was just sick of privileged Westerners coming to her country and treating it like a wasteland.\xa0You have seen them, you know who they are, don’t be them. Act like your mother is watching you and be aware of social cues.''Learning hello and thank you in the language will get you a long way''I hate to admit it, but I am a horrendous\xa0linguist. Sometimes, we travel fast through certain regions and the languages are always changing. Despite this, we always learn “Hello” and “Thank You” in the local language. Trust us, these two words can\xa0make all the difference in your experience with a local.''Me with my travel buddy in Japan. Couldn’t understand more than three words between us.''You do not need to know the language''That being said, you do not need to know the local language to travel internationally. I mean, of course knowing French, German, Spanish, or even Zulu will help and probably enhance your experiences in a country. However, do not let that keep you from traveling. \xa0We travel all around the world, and sadly, cannot speak another language besides English fluently. We still get from point A to point B, and we have a great time doing so.''Travel during the off-season''Traveling outside of the summer months''will generally yield lower prices, friendlier locals, and fewer crowds. Not to mention peak summer is a miserable time to be outside in most places. We travel during all periods of the year, but truly love traveling in the fall\xa0and early spring when crowds are dwindling and we get a destination all to ourselves.''Hierapolis all to ourselves in''Pamukkale''Use public transport''Unless it is absolutely unavailable, or we arrive somewhere new past midnight we''always''take the local public transport options. Whether it be the metro, bus, or a tuk-tuk, we get around like the locals do. 99% of the time public transport will be cheaper,''99% more eco-friendly'', and 100% of the time it will be more of an adventure.''Accept curiosity''When you travel people are going to be interested in your story – accept it. Whether it be new friends at a hostel or the man waiting at a bus stop with you, you may get some questions.''Where are you from? How long are you traveling? Where is your favorite destination?''Or my personal favorite –''How can you afford to travel?''You’re going to get a lot of the same questions, a lot of different questions, and many, many personal questions. Accept them, and be curious back!''Pack quick dry items''There is a lot of polyester in my bag, and it’s not because I’m sporty. Cameron and I travel with a number quick dry items in our bags. Many countries don’t have dryers for their clothes, so the quicker my clothing air dries, the better. You''can see my full packing list here'', and Cameron has a''detailed men’s packing list here.''We both have the''Youphoria Quick Drying Bathing towel''which is a life saver!''Eat and shop local''This goes for anywhere in the world – traveling or not. Would you rather support the super giants or the local merchant? Do you fantasize about putting fruit into your body that has been imported\xa0from other continents or eating the fresh local produce from the farmers market?''Eating at a local Berber market in Morocco''Think before you haggle''Many shops in South America, Asia, Africa, and the Middle East operate\xa0on a bargaining basis. These are my favorite as I love a good deal, and I believe I have a self-awarded gold medal in bargaining.\xa0However, sometimes it’s important to stop and think about who really needs that money – the local villager or the traveler? Sometimes I find myself getting caught up haggling over 50 cents, then I really have to stop and think relatively about this.''Document your documents''Take a photo of your passport, credit cards, insurance cards, and anything else that may be important. Send it to your parents, save it in the cloud, or print out extra copies and keep them with you. You never know when you may need to revert back to these. We also like to travel with passport sized photos of ourselves in case we ever need extra ones at border crossings (This happened between Thailand and Cambodia, and saved us $20).''Learn to say YES''Be a Yes girl! Be a Yes boy! Just be a YES person. Would you like to try a fried spider? YES (No). Would you like to get''hit in the face with one hundred\xa0tomatoes''? I suppose so! Good stories rarely ever come from saying no.''Hide money''You never want to be caught somewhere without cash. Many places in the world are cash only and if you are robbed, have lost luggage, or you have drained your bank account you could be facing some trouble. We have money and extra credit cards stashed in many places just in case something unexpected happens. I like to hide money in empty chapstick containers, and always in a stable currency. Read more about how we''protect our money abroad here.''Purchase travel\xa0insurance''Thankfully we have never had an injury while traveling, but that doesn’t mean that we travel without insurance. Purchasing travel insurance is crucial. Just like at home you never know what can\xa0happen. We use''World Nomads''for all our insurance needs. Expert Vagabond has a great post about''travel insurance for Americans here''.''Clear your cookies''Not on your plate. If there is one thing I have learned while searching for flights it is to clear my browsing data and cookies before searching. Airline booking engines can\xa0track your recent searches and may raise the price next time you search for it, demand meet supply. All\xa0because they know you want it like Cookie Monster wants a cookie.''SMILE''Out of all of our best travel tips that we can share with you, the number one is to smile. It’s the most common language in our wide\xa0world.''Even smiles during the Thai coup d’état''What are your best travel tips for\xa0travel all around the world? Comment below!''Read Next:''Best Travel Backpacks For Europe • Our Top Picks to Save Your Back 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''The 20 Best Winter Vacations in Europe According to Travel Experts''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''30 Unique Things to do in Namibia!''April 15, 2018''Romantic Things to do in Cape Town on Every Budget''February 22, 2018''Best Camera For Safari: What Camera Is Best For You?''February 17, 2018''My 25 Best Travel Tips From Traveling 65+ Countries in my Twenties''was last modified:''April 10th, 2018''by''Natasha''Wondering where to go in Croatia? Croatia\xa0continues to pop\xa0up on more traveler’s radars as a hot destination. The medieval walled coastal cities\xa0are backdrops to popular TV Series and movies, while''the region of Istria\xa0could be confused with Tuscany with its\xa0artisan products and hilltop towns.\xa0When I first visited Croatia back in 2013, I thought of it as an unheard of destination and to most Americans it was, but\xa0when I\xa0visited I learned of its longtime popularity with the Slavs, Italians, and Germans.''In recent years, the secret appears to have gotten out to the rest of the world. When we returned in 2016 we found Americans gallivanting around every corner, and English being spoken in even the most remote of places. Croatia is no longer “off the beaten path,” and is moving on towards becoming\xa0a touristic juggernaut. \xa0Almost everyone knows the small city of Dubrovnik,\xa0and Croatia became a member of the EU in 2013. We were able to spend five weeks in Croatia and embarked on the ultimate road trip to find the best of what the\xa0country has to offer during all seasons and help answer the question of where to go in Croatia.''Where To Go in Croatia?''Table of Contents''Zagreb''Istria''Plitvice''Zadar''Pag''Split''Hvar''Dubrovnik''What\xa0to Know''Get Out of Croatia''Start in Zagreb''Many Croatian vacations may start and end in the capital city. \xa0While the city has\xa0no major attractions like the Eiffel Tower or the Colosseum, it hums with\xa0a certain energy that can’t be found''anywhere else in the Balkans''. Zagreb is surprisingly''trendy'',''houses a large university\xa0population'',''and''is an interesting blend of communist era buildings, pedestrians streets, and''medieval architecture. Although\xa0this city is often\xa0overlooked, I have found that Zagreb is one of my favorite capital cities in Europe, and perhaps it is why I find myself\xa0coming back. \xa0There are so many things to do and see in the Croatian capital that any visitor is sure to be entertained. \xa0Even if it’s December and you’re wondering\xa0where to go in Croatia in the dead of European winter, then Zagreb’s the city.''What to\xa0see in\xa0Zagreb, Croatia''Zagreb Funicular''To get between Zagreb’s upper and lower towns take a ride on the Zagreb Funicular. This tram is one of the steepest in the world and only cost 10 HRK for a ride. A great view of Zagreb awaits you at the top. If you would rather get some exercise\xa0in you can also climb the stairs to the side of the Funicular and be met with a beautiful park. We spent a quiet afternoon there watching the city.''Museum of Broken Relationships''If you find yourself in Zagreb on a rainy day then head to this museum located in Zagreb’s\xa0Upper Town. The name says it all, this is a museum dedicated to broken relationships. The building is filled with trinkets and loved possessions that were donated by real people who found themselves in a “broken relationship.” However, the appeal doesn’t lie in the objects themselves, but instead in reading the hundreds of stories told by their former owners. Allow at least an hour to read all the sad, funny, and quirky stories there. All the softies should make sure to bring a box of tissues for the heartaches.''Dolac Market''Just north of Trg Bana Jelačića is a daily fruit and vegetable market.''Dolac market''is a lively place to observe, eat like a local, and support local business owners. Almost every city in Europe has its own form of a market, and it’s often a great way to get the feel of a city. Dolac Market operates Mon-Fri from 6.30am-3pm, Sat to 2pm, Sun to 1pm.''St. Marks Church''If you have just an hour free in Zagreb’s city center then make sure to take the funicular up to the upper town and see St. Marks Church. Sure, it may just be another European church but after seeing the roof I couldn’t help but feel impressed by this detailed craftsmanship.''Shopping''Did you forget your bikini? Go shopping in this metropolis before you head south to Dalmatia. Zagreb is a shoppers paradise. Here you will find all the name brand stores that you may be missing from your home country.''Where to have a coffee in Zagreb?''Velvet cafe''is a quiet cafe that is perfect for meet-ups, evening drinks, or to get some quality reading in. The cafe interior looks like\xa0the inside of the castle in Beauty and the Beast, and is one of the only cafes in Zagreb that is non-smoking. Located near the end of Dežmanova ul.''Where to stay in Zagreb, Croatia?''Budget:''The Swanky Mint Hostel''Mid-Range:''The Best Western Premier Hotel Astoria''Luxury:''Esplanade Hotel''Hire a car and drive around Istria''Istria is the northwestern triangle shaped region of Croatia that is bordered by Italy and Slovenia.\xa0This peninsula has been under rule by the Venetians, Romans, Byzantines, Austro-Hungarians, Italians, and Yugoslavians – making it truly diverse in history and culture. Italian and German speakers will also have an easier time here since both languages are very widely spoken in the area. Many people come to Croatia, head to Dalmatia and go home – don’t make that mistake!''Rovinj''It’s a mighty hard decision to pick the most beautiful city in Croatia, but I think Rovinj might just take the cake. And should certainly be a top choice when you are wondering where to go in Croatia. The colorful city may as well be a cousin to the Cinque Terre in Italy, and makes Dubrovnik\xa0look a plain Jane. Visitors should\xa0immediately head to the old town of Rovinj, which is small and walkable. The Church of St. Euphemia is also worth visiting and is free to the public, although the real charm is strolling through the cobbled alleyways and enjoying the ambiance and local stores around. Make sure to''Have a coffee at''Brasserie Adriatic''for great views and to feel posh at affordable prices.''Motovun''“''Town of the Truffles.''” At least that’s what I want to call Motovun. Here you can find truffle oil, truffle butter, truffle ice-cream, truffle cheese, truffle pasta, truffle alcohol, and truffle MANIA. Wherever you walk in Motovun you will hear some sort of talk of truffles, and trying them in the town should not be missed. The\xa0forests surrounding Motovun\xa0are\xa0covered in pedunculate oak, abundant in continental Croatia, which makes for some of the best hosts for white truffles. \xa0There are many local operators that will even take visitors truffle hunting through the forests for about €50. We loved walking around the small\xa0medieval fortress on top of the steep hill and stopping can stop for a glass of local wine on tap (6-9 HRK) while gazing over the Mirna valley. \xa0There is\xa0also great biking and hiking trails around Motovun, and even paragliding for the fearless.''One absolutely must eat at''Konoba Mondo''for an unforgettable truffle experience. The restaurant is small, quaint, and was frequented by my favorite foodie,''Anthony Bourdain''. \xa0Prices are affordable and the food is exceptional.''Pula''Well known for the ancient ruins scattered all around the city, Pula\xa0is much\xa0trendier than the rest of Istria. The main sight here is the Roman amphitheater which is the 6th largest surviving amphitheater in the world. Visitors can walk around the outside to get picture perfect photos, or pay 55 HRK to explore inside the circle like the Romans once did. The main square is built on the old ancient Roman forum and it is here that you will find the Temple of August from the first century. Needless to say, if history\xa0is your thing then you should definitely head to Pula while in Croatia.''Fažana''About a 10-minute drive from Pula is her quiet sister,\xa0Fažana. We came here not knowing what to expect on our way to see the amphitheater and ended up staying for a few hours to soak\xa0up the sun.\xa0Fažana has beautiful pebble beaches complete with a colorful town square and numerous waterfront restaurants serving up fresh seafood. Fažana is also the jumping off point to get to the\xa0Brijuni islands.''Bale''We traveled to Bale in mid-May and were pleasantly surprised not to find a soul around. We had a great time strolling\xa0through the old quiet streets that were filled with bright pink and red rose bushes in full bloom. Bale is a tiny\xa0town, but it does have plenty of hiking and cycling trails located right outside the main square.''Be sure to have a coffee at''Kamene Priče''for excellent cappuccinos, eclectic\xa0decor, and if you’re lucky a live jazz show.''Labin''On the east coast of the Istrian peninsula lies the colorful town of Labin. \xa0We stopped here on our way out of Istria for the day and instantly fell in love with the sleepy town. Labin is by far the most colorful place we visited in Istria with each old building painted in different hues of blue, yellow, pink and orange. We spent about an hour just taking photos of all the pretty doors!''Don’t forget to''bring your camera. You will want it for the vibrant colors of Labin!''Where to stay in Istria, Croatia''Airbnb’s are prevalent in the Istria region. We loved staying at our Airbnb in Istria, which was located right in the countryside. Our hosts brought us fresh eggs, homemade wine, and famous Istrian treats every day. Personal touches like these are why we totally recommend using Airbnb in Istria. Here are a few of our favorites:''A beautiful apartment in Zminj''A villa with a pool in Pula''Get $27 Off Your First Airbnb''Note: I highly recommend renting a car if you plan to travel Istria. Almost everywhere\xa0in Istria''can be reached within an hour'', so having a rental car gives you the option to sleep anywhere in the region. It’s always nice to travel at your own pace and not have to rely on buses. With a car,''you can\xa0visit three or four little towns a day.''Be enamored in Plitvice Lakes''Plitvice Lakes National Park is sure to be\xa0high on anyone’s itinerary when traveling through Croatia. The park’s lakes are stunning and something you must see before you die.\xa0The national park, Plitvice Lakes National Park, is the largest of Croatia’s national parks and has been a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1979. The park\xa0is easily accessible from Zagreb, Zadar, and Split. With the abundance of accessible routes, there is absolutely no reason to not make a day out to the park while in Croatia. Plitvice\xa0Lakes are unlike any other place we’ve been to on earth. This is due to the phenomenon of karst hydrography. A unique example of geology in which limestone and dolomite have eroded over time into the water creating underwater tunnels and channels. The result is a set of 16 lakes at various elevations cascading down in turquoise\xa0waterfalls. The park is a series of\xa0endless elevated paths,\xa0thick moody forests, rare\xa0glimpses of wildlife and of course the\xa0unreal\xa0geography. \xa0Seriously, photos do not do this place justice.''What to do\xa0around Plitvice Lakes''Visit Plitvice Lakes''As mentioned, there are 16 lakes in total that fall from many magnificent waterfalls to create a breathtaking natural formation. The park is huge and we recommend a full day to experience all that it\xa0has to offer. Rain or shine the park and the lakes are always stunning. The park\xa0is open year round and admission prices vary depending on the season.''[Check up to date prices here'']''If you are not big on walking around all the day there are shuttles and ferry boats to take you around the park, but it should be noted that the best views require some walking. We suggest wearing comfortable shoes, bringing a camera (and a case – water is everywhere) and carrying a water bottle. Bonus, if you bring a''LifeStraw Go water bottle''you can fill your bottle up with some of the lakes fresh water.''Kayak the Lakes''When dry land doesn’t suit your fancy, hop in a kayak and see the lakes from a different point of view. There are a few companies like''Raftrek that organize full day tours''for less than 300 HRK! We\xa0couldn’t believe how beautiful Croatia was from the water when we went''sea-kayaking in Split''and''whitewater rafting down the Cetina River''.''Go Hiking!''There are plenty of great hikes around\xa0this beautiful region of Croatia. The hike up\xa0Plješevica Mountain reveals lush forests with a moderate to intense climb. For an easier trek take the afternoon and catch a\xa0sunset on\xa0Mrsinj Grad. The hike through\xa0Plješevica Mountain takes a full day; however, the hike up to\xa0Mrsinj Grad leads through an old fortress and only takes about three hours. Falling Lakes Hostel can organize a trip any day\xa0to either\xa0of these locations.''Where to grab a bite to eat?''There aren’t a''ton''of options for food near Plitvice Lakes so prepare to put on\xa0a cooking apron. However, we found that''Restoran Degenija''is about a 10-minute drive from the parks and is popular for traditional Croatian food and pizza!''Where to stay near Plitvice Lakes?''Budget:''Falling Lakes Hostel''Mid Range:''Apartment King''Luxury:''Villa Lika''Party in Zadar''Thanks to Ryan Air, the past five years have brought an influx of budget backpackers to Zadar, turning\xa0this Dalmatian city into\xa0a party town. Be warned, that is not the only reason one should travel to this lovely\xa0city by sea. For starters, Zadar is the\xa0biggest city of north-central Dalmatia and has a\xa0rich history. It\xa0was voted the Best European Destination for 2016 and even Alfred Hitchcock himself said that you can find the “best sunset in the world here.” There are tons of amazing things to keep visitors occupied throughout all times of the year.''What to\xa0see in Zadar''Old Town''It wouldn’t be a Croatian city without an Old Town. \xa0The old town here is much smaller than in Split, but larger than Hvar. Nevertheless, it is easily walkable. \xa0Exploring the old town\xa0will take''at least''half a day as there is an abundance\xa0of ruins, churches, and cafes to occupy time. \xa0People’s Square,''Narodni Trg'', is the central\xa0meeting point in the old town and has been since the Renaissance era. \xa0It’s\xa0been said that sitting at a cafe in the center of town is the “hip” thing one can do. My favorite cafe bar was “Sveti Lovre” literally set inside the well-preserved church of St. Lawrence. How many times have you ordered a latte inside a pre-Romanesque church?''Or take a coffee to go and stroll around the Roman Ruins located right next to the Church of St. Donatus. \xa0For €2, you can gallivant into this old Church and marvel at the architecture that is now used for concerts and galas throughout the year.''Sea Organ & Greeting to the Sun''The Greeting to the Sun and the Sea Organ are two things that should not\xa0be missed in Zadar. Located at the end of the Old Town facing Northwest is the Greeting to the Sun, a giant\xa022-meter wide\xa0circle made up of\xa0three hundred multi-layered glass plates. The glass plates are solar powered and at night, the giant circle comes life to produce a spectacular and colorful light show. While this spectacle of lights is happening, you can hear sounds of the nearby Sea Organ creating a splendid atmosphere to celebrate the end of the day. The Sea Organ is exactly what you think, a musical instrument in the sea. Throughout the entire day, the organ plays music from the tubes located underneath a set of steps by way of the constant waves of the Mediterranean.''Nin''Where to go in Croatia for a little tranquility and skin therapy? About 20 km away from Zadar, is the alluring town of Nin. Take the 30-minute local bus (17 HRK) to get there for a day trip just outside of Zadar. The town is charming and well known for its\xa0production of salt. However, the draw in our opinion are the medicinal thermal mud baths. Walk\xa0along the long and sandy Queens Beach and you will come\xa0to a more foraged part of water. There is no mistaking that you will know you are at the magical mud baths when you arrive. Don’t think – just jump in and slather yourself\xa0in\xa0the mud of Nin. For optimal results, let the mud dry on your body for 30 minutes, rinse and\xa0repeat. You may smell like a bag of farts, but your skin will thank you!''Take the ferry to Ugljan''Zadar is\xa0well-connected with a solid ferry system. Any day is a good day to take the''ferry over to the island of Ugljan''. The ferry will bring you into the town of Preko, and a walk along the coast will eventually bring you to the trail leading up to\xa0St. Michael Fort.''The hike up is fairly easy, and takes about an hour, but the views over the neighboring islands are stunning. Don’t forget a bottle of wine, some dinner, and a travel buddy to enjoy the spectacular sunset.''Where to grab a beer in Zadar?''Hands down the best place to grab a cold beer are at Tequila Sunrise, located on Punta Bajlo Beach. Here you will find a great selection of beers, seats to gaze into the sea, and a cliff perfect to dive into the cool waters below on a hot day.''Where to stay in Zadar?''Budget:''Lazy Monkey Hostel''Mid Range:''Studio NEST''Luxury:''Art Hotel Kalelarga''Head to the island Pag''The island of Pag is one of those places that you don’t find until you’re in Croatia and someone brings it up. Thinking you need some party time and don’t know where to go in Croatia? The main town on Pag, Novalja, is known for primarily one thing – partying. However, there are other great activities asides from drinking your liver into despair. Needless to say, the shoulder\xa0season is the preferred visiting time in our opinion. You can enjoy things like the natural beauty, colorful sunsets, and general quietness of the island.\xa0Visitors will be a bit shocked when\xa0visiting Pag to find it is not lush like''the island of Hvar''. This is due\xa0to the strong winds and salt that is sprayed by Bora, killing\xa0almost any vegetation on the island.\xa0There is a certain beauty in the island’s natural rugged terrain.''What to\xa0do on Pag''Moped around the island''To get better acquainted with the island, try hiring a moped for the day to get around. Renting a moped allows one to see the small towns on the island and catch stunning vistas of the\xa0crystal clear waters. Petrol is fairly inexpensive in Croatia and a one-day moped rental will run you approximately 150 HRK in the off season and 250 HRK in June-August.''Making of Pag cheese''Anyone making the effort to reach Pag has to try the cheese. \xa0The cheese is made from sheep’s milk, is hard, distinctly flavored, and is nationally\xa0revered. Before you dig in to try this amazing cheese it should be noted that the cheese gets better with age. We were able to visit''Vidas, a local family producer'',\xa0who produces and sells the world renowned Pag cheese. What is the secret behind the distinct flavors? Pag Bora. Or a strong, cool, dry wind on the island that carries the dry salt dust over from the nearby Velebit mountains. The free roaming sheep eat the salt while grazing, this salt\xa0carries over to their milk, the milk is used to produce the cheese, humans eat the cheese…you get the picture.''Where to party in Croatia?''Zrće Beach is a long stone beach that draws the attentions of thousands of partygoers each year. \xa0The beach is lined with clubs, bars, tattoo stands, and even a bungee jump operating until all hours of the night in the summer months. You cannot mention the island Pag and avoid Zrće. Even though\xa0Zrće has been named one of the best party places in Europe and has been nicknamed “The Croatian Ibiza,”\xa0the water is still crystal blue and it is still a great place to go relax during the day time.''Stara Novalja''Stara Novalja is an old town (literally translating to “Old Novalja”) with a long sand beach and small town. Even though it was April I enjoyed lounging about here and making new friends while digging my toes in the Croatian sand.''Where to have a coffee in Novalja?''My favorite spot to grab a cappuccino and have some peace and quiet was at Valis. Located on the town square, this cafe has three levels and is decorated in all pastel purple (i.e. my idea of heaven).''Where to stay in Novalja?''Budget:''Big Yellow House''Mid Range:''Apartment\xa0Vesna Novalja''Luxury:''Villa Ani''Walk through Split''Many travelers on a tour of Croatia will probably stop off in the coastal city of Split, for good reason too. After Zagreb, Split is the second largest city in Croatia and is conveniently located in the center of Dalmatia between Zadar and Dubrovnik. The city makes for a great jumping off point for those heading to the island of Hvar. Split is beaming with coastal energy and from the moment you step off the bus, train, or ferry you will feel energized.\xa0Roaming past the waterfront cafes on the smooth cobbled streets seems like a great way to pass the day in Split. The capital of Dalmatia is the perfect place to soak up that laid back Balkan cafe scene by the water and chill out for a few days.''What to\xa0do in Split''Where to get history in Croatia? Diocletian’s Palace''This ancient palace was built by the Roman emperor Diocletian and now makes up more than half of the old town in Split. It would be almost impossible to avoid seeing the beautiful palace while visiting. Diocletian’s Palace was also a filming location for the fourth season of Game of Thrones, acting as Daenerys’ throne room in Mereen for all you fans out there. We felt that just a wander around was enough to appreciate the sheer size of the palace. The star of Diocletian’s Palace is actually the basement where\xa0the best-preserved parts of the palace.''Bačvice Beach for bathing''Bacvice beach is by far the most popular beach in Split. The Dalmatian coast does\xa0not have many sandy beaches, but Bacvice offers you soft a sandy retreat and calm waters to relax. The\xa0cafes are perfect to sit, enjoy a cappuccino, and people watch the day away.''Get Active!''Besides strolling around Split you can also enjoy\xa0some of the area’s best outdoor activities. Try your hand at''kayaking in the beautiful blue water'', go mountain biking, hiking, rock-climbing, canyoning, diving, or go rafting for a day. You didn’t just come to Croatia to sit around, did you?''Kayaking with our amazing and''trusty GoPro camera''Where to Eat?''FIFE Buffet''is one of the places to go for seafood at affordable prices in the area. The restaurant features indoor seating for those cold Mediterranean nights, as well as an outdoor patio overlooking the harbor. Portions are big for European standards so bring a dinner buddy to split with if you are not a big eater.''Tipping around 10% is common in Croatia'', so make sure to factor that into your meal prices.''We found fresh ingredients, affordable prices, and take away options at''Toto’s Burger Bar''. Located about 100m from Fife.''Where to stay in Split?''Budget:''Tchaikovsky Hostel''Mid Range:''Split Allure Apartments''Luxury:''Palace Judita Heritage Hotel''Get to Beautiful Hvar''If you’re wondering where to go in Croatia on for a luxurious holiday,''then Hvar is your answer''. A 2-hour ferry ride away from Split lies the sunny island of Hvar. Hvar is very well known for almost all tourist from those on massive private yachts to newlyweds, families, and the young coming for a party.\xa0Hvar is beautiful year round and even promotes itself as “the sunniest spot in Europe.” With\xa0over 2715 hours of sunlight in an average year, Hvar has some very tan locals and some of the countries best wine. Peak season is July and August, and you can look at the sky high prices to confirm that. We recommend going in April or September when the weather is warm, but tourists are scarce.''What to do on Hvar''Get moving!''The island provides some of the best adventure and outdoor activities in the region. There are many different trails and hikes around the island ranging from easy to difficult. Some very popular excursions include kayaking around the Pakleni islands and rock climbing.''Explore the whole island''One of the highlights of our time in Hvar was renting a powerful ATV and exploring the whole island on our own schedule! Roads go from paved to dirt, and sometimes you are literally right on the cliff overlooking your death – but we lived! If you really want\xa0to make the most out of your time and see Hvar, Jelsa, Stari Grad, and all that is in between we recommend carving out a whole day for the adventure.''Riding around the peak of Hvar with''our lovely GoPro''in tow''Where to eat in Hvar, Croatia''For fish lovers like us, we can not recommend''Gariful''enough. There are many seafood restaurants on the island, but we were informed that Gariful is one of the best by locals, and we were not disappointed. \xa0Sit outside on the deck to catch the ambiance of the harbor and enjoy the sound of the waves while drinking some of the island’s best wine and grubbing out on the delectable octopus.''Where to catch some zzz’s in Hvar?''Budget:''White Rabbit Hostel''Mid Range:''Hotel Fortuna''Luxury:''Adriana\xa0Hotel''(We LOVED\xa0it, check out the view below!)''The view from the Adriana Hotel''Go South to Dubrovnik''In this day and age of travel, I don’t think Dubrovnik needs an introduction. Young and old come from near and far to visit the tip of Croatia. Dubrovnik is Croatia’s crown jewel and is nicknamed the “Pearl of the Adriatic.” Personally, Dubrovnik is a bit overrated and has been sipping too much Game of Thrones kool-aid, but that’s for another time.''What to\xa0see in Dubrovnik''Old town''It’s true, the walled city is beautiful, clean, and transports you back in time. Here you can walk on the old city walls between 08:00 and 17:30 for 100 HRK. Despite the high cost, if you came all the way to Dubrovnik then walking these walls for an hour or more is well worth the money. \xa0Inside the old town, you can also visit Roland’s Column, the Bell Tower, and many other historic sites; however, the best thing to do is stroll around and enjoy the atmosphere.''Beware''as the tourist rise in the summer months, so do the prices. Do shopping outside the walls for the best bargains on virtually anything.''Banje Beach''Grab your flip flops and new bikini and hit up\xa0Banje Beach. In the summer season, a chair and umbrella will cost you, but lying on the pebbles is free! As with most of the beaches in Croatia the water here is a stunning mix of turquoise and baby blue. Enjoy!''Game of Thrones Tour''I feel like I am obligated to include this since Cameron is such a die hard fan. This walking tour takes you through film sets and real life attractions featured on the hit HBO series.''Where to have a meal in Dubrovnik?''Pantarul''is a great place to enjoy a nice meal out. The restaurant serves up Farm to table freshness and has an extensive Croatian wine list.''Where to catch a nap in Dubrovnik?''Budget:''Cocoon Hostel''Mid Range:''Art House''Luxury:''St. Josephs Dubrovnik''Useful Knowledge For Any Croatian Vacation''Croatia has an extensive bus network that can get you almost anywhere in the country.''Check BusCroatia for up to date times''. We found that renting a car gave us the most flexibility and actually worked out cheaper for people traveling in pairs. We always book our cars through''Auto Europe''and generally try to go with SiXT when available.''We met a lot of travelers who only packed summer clothes and were surprised to find out that Croatia can actually get quite chilly! Temperatures in Zagreb can drop to 0°C and can get as low as 5°C in Dubrovnik. Do your research before you go and know the temperatures.''Here is what I packed for Europe.''The Croatians do not refer to Croatia as Croatia. Once in the country, you will quickly find out that they call their homeland''Hrvatska''.''Although Croatia is in Southeastern Europe and is outside the Eurozone,''it is still not''that''cheap''. We would put it on par with Slovenia and Greece. We’ve been told that this was done in preparation to join the Euro, but we’re no financial experts.\xa0The Kuna is the national currency, although Euros are widely accepted.''You may have heard of Croatia from the brutal Yugoslav wars back in the 90’s. Although, there are landmines still abundant in non-visited and marked areas, the country is not dangerous. I repeat, the country…along with the rest of the''Balkans are not dangerous.''It pains me that people still question safety in this area of Europe, I mean the locals might be in danger of lung cancer, but tourists in\xa0danger? No, unless you count secondhand smoke.''The Dalmation Dog actually is traced back to the Dalmatia region. Unfortunately, we never saw one in the area.''Getting Out of Croatia''Zagreb is very well connected by train with Ljubljana, Vienna, Budapest, and Prague.''From Dubrovnik, consider''heading South to Kotor, Montenegro''or East to''Bosnia & Herzegovina.''The Istria region is a hop, skip, and a j''ump away from Italy.''There are buses running to Trieste and even ferries sailing from Rovinj''to Venice''.''Surprise! Ryan Air has taken over some of the Croatian cities and has made traveling to and from the country even more accessible and affordable.''Check Skyscanner now for prices.''Plan Your Trip to Croatia''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''or to feel more at home in Croatia try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights:''Skyscanner''is a comparison website that searches millions of flights. Once you find your best deal, book directly through the airline (no extra fees).''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Water:''We found the water tasty to drink from the taps. For extra assurance though we always recommend a''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle.''You May Also Like''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''April 12, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Where to Go in Croatia to Have an Amazing Vacation''was last modified:''November 3rd, 2017''by''Natasha''Shanghai has long been on my travel radar. The closest I have ever been to visiting Shanghai was in the\xa0Shanghai Pudong International Airport on a five-hour layover to Hong Kong. However, next year that will change as we plan to finally venture into China for the first time.\xa0 I have put together this list of must-see attractions for when I visit, and\xa0hopefully\xa0other travelers can get some ideas too!''Shanghai is the second largest city in China and has more people living in it than all of\xa0Norway, Sweden, and Finland combined. With a population of over 23 million and 15 different districts, it’s no doubt that Shanghai is a massive metropolis. \xa0It may even be daunting just to find a place to stay,\xa0but with Shanghai hotels located all over the city, this is one area of the logistics I always feel comfortable with. When I know which hotel I prefer, I can focus on the many\xa0sights\xa0and experiences''I want to tick off my checklis''t!''Have a Tea at\xa0Tang Yun Tea House''The first thing on my list in Shanghai is to have a drink at a traditional Chinese Tea House. Not just any\xa0teahouse, though, but the''Tang Yun tea house'', which serves many varying types of Chinese tea. This classical tea house has been on my list for a while because it is filled with calligraphy, and looks like the epitome of tranquility and serenity.''Stroll Back in Time in Qībǎo''For a transportation into ancient China, a visit to Qībǎo is a must. This 13th-century town was built during the Ming dynasty, but now serves as a residential town and a tourist attraction. It’s thriving with history, dotted with narrow alleyways, and has a dazzling canal to make you feel like you are really in China.\xa0Qībǎo is named after the\xa0Qībǎo Temple located in the town and can be accessed by taking the''number 9 metro to\xa0Qībǎo station.''Image via''Flickr''by Kimon Berlin''Get My Dumpling Fill at Din Tai Fung''The one restaurant I see on everyone’s\xa0“must eat” list in China would be Din Tai Fung. \xa0To travel all the way to China and miss out on this iconic restaurant would leave me filled with regret. Din Tai Fung is best known for their xiao long bao (Shanghai steamed soup dumplings) and is what many patrons come specifically for. The funny thing is that''Din Tai Fung is actually a Taiwanese chain'', but no one seems to mind!''Catch a Sunset at The Bund''No trip to Shanghai\xa0would be complete with a visit to''The Bund.''This infamous area is located on the western bank of the\xa0Huangpu River, and if you don’t mind the crowds, it can make for a very fun sightseeing activity. This place is enchanting during sunrise or sunset. The Bund is the perfect place for a mix of historic, new, commercialized, industrialized, and western style buildings all in one. After\xa0sunset, the next step is to wait until complete darkness for the light show over Pudong.''Image via''Flickr''by Joe Hunt''If you’re ready for an exotic but relaxing vacation, book your Shanghai hotel and start packing.''Four Must Have Experiences While in Shanghai''was last modified:''November 2nd, 2017''by''Natasha''News flash!''I am not camping person''. \xa0I love being outdoors,''I love adventure activities'', and I absolutely cannot stand being in a room without a window connecting me to the sun. However, if you throw me in a tent and tell me to shower in the river I may kill you in your sleep. So when the opportunity to “glamp” in at BigBerry I was ecstatic. You mean to tell me I can be one with nature while still having access to a hot shower, comfy bed, AND WiFi? Sign me up! Springtime finally rolled around and The World Pursuit made our way back to Slovenia to spend time at BigBerry, a lifestyle camp whose slogan is “Luxury of Freedom.” Who doesn’t like the sound of that?''Glamping at BigBerry''So what is Glamping?''It’s the first 4 letters of “Glamorous,” and the last 4 letters of “Camping,” or “Glamorous Camping,” for all the blondes out there (I can say that because I am blonde). Glamping has taken the tourism industry by storm as a growing number of outdoor enthusiast want a little more comfort and luxury on their vacations. Glamping provides vacationers the chance to experience the great parts of camping (think hiking, solitude, and listening to the birds chirp) without all the hassles (think pitching a tent, bugs, collecting firewood, cooking over a fire, and squatting in the bushes to go number two).''The “BB” – or BigBerry''BigBerry is a brand new lifestyle camp situated on the Slovenian side of the Kolpa River in the Bela Krajina region. The Kolpa River has long been the border between Croatia and Slovenia in the southeastern region. The river is so short in width that you can wave hello to your Croatian neighbors from your home patio, or simply swim over saving on passport stamp space! The Kolpa River is clean and relatively unknown, making it the optimal spot for campers. In the summer, it offers great kayaking conditions, rowing for beginners, and is terrific for those who like to fish.''Read More: {''How Much Does it Cost to Backpack Europe?''}''The River Kolpa is beautiful even on a gloomy day!''The camp is set up with seven prefab homes and a reception area. The camp has a volleyball court, a cool main patio for\xa0barbecues, and plan to have boats, hammocks, and bikes for when the sun really starts to shine. This is also 2016, meaning there is a strong WiFi signal in all the outdoors areas.''BigBerry houses behind the cows''The “BB” Houses''The “Brown Berry” mobile homes are designed for a complete''Slovenian glamping experience''. Each house is contemporary, chic, and immaculately\xa0clean with a covered balcony attached. There are two, four, and six person houses; perfect for all kinds of getaways and vacations. Bathrooms, Bedrooms, and well-equipped kitchens make up the interior of the homes that are bigger than our''former NYC apartment''. \xa0On top of the essentials, the spaces are designed with optimal comfort in mind. Dimming blinds for the windows? Check. Waterfall showers? Check. LED TV’s, wardrobe lights, hidden drawers? Check. Check. Check. Seriously, this beats the hell out of our old overpriced apartment in the Bronx. Who wouldn’t want to wake up to the sounds of the river flowing and the birds chirping?''Courtesy of BigBerry''Falling in Love with the Bela Krajina Region''Positioned in the southeast of Slovenia, right on the Croatian border sits Bela Krajina. This lush region contains 27,000 inhabitants living peaceful\xa0and simple lives in the serene countryside. We were informed that this is one of the poorest regions of Slovenia, but you wouldn’t know it by visiting! This place is perfect for those looking to get away. Belo Krajina is made up of three main towns: Čenomelj,''Metlika'', and Semič. BigBerry is located in the tiny village of''Primostek''which is just outside Metlika, marketed as the sunny\xa0side of the Gorjanci mountain range!''The Bela Krajina region is very\xa0well known for their wine growing districts. Almost every house has their own wine producing capabilities, and any local we met always invited us in for a glass of wine or rakija (or both)! There are numerous wine festivals every year, the biggest being''Vinska Vigred in late May''. Vinska Vigred brings in more than 20,000 people each year, making it the largest wine festival in Slovenia. The region truly comes alive with this festival that showcases many award-winning\xa0wines.''Sadly, our dates didn’t quite line up for this festival. However, we were able to visit the local family winery of Malnarič. The\xa0Malnarič winery produces 70% white and 30% red wines. I’m personally a red wine drinker, but all are equally delicious.''Bela Krajina is known for it’s vast and varying landscape, making the entire region perfect for hikers and outdoor adventurers. \xa0So there is something for the non-drinkers, or people that don’t get hangovers (unlike me) to stay entertained. The terrain varies in difficulty, but all hikers will always be surrounded by the beautiful region.''Read More: {''What to Pack For Your Trip to Slovenia''}''Food for Living''We are total foodies. If we aren’t fed every three hours then it’s safe to say we are going to get a little “''hangry''.” So, it came to our delight to learn that BigBerry is actually named after the many berries it will grow and produce throughout the year. Our favorite part of waking up every morning was receiving a basket of local fruits, vegetables, spreads, and fresh milk on our patio. BigBerry promotes healthy and sustainable living through the food it serves. The camp works with local farmers to bring guests the freshest and healthiest products in the region.''We were able to meet with many local food experts in the region, and plan to detail our experiences with them soon! We had a great time exploring Kmetiha Strucelj, one of the largest dairy farms in Bela Krajina. \xa0I know that dairy consumption is a hot topic right now, so we were very happy in knowing these Slovenian cows live happy and long lives while grazing in open fields.\xa0 I’m not a huge milk fan, but I have said before on a''previous visit to Ljubljana''that Slovenia has some of the best yogurts I’ve ever tasted. I literally screamed in excitement when I found one of my favorite types of yogurt in the Bela Krajina region!''We also put a few inches on our waistline just in time for summer by munching on all the bread in the region. Our favorite was\xa0Belokranjska Pogača, which we even got a chance to make ourselves.\xa0Belokranjska Pogača is the famous traditional bread in Bela Krajina. It is always prepared fresh with tender love and care and can be served in both winter and summer months. The preparation and handling of the bread take\xa0a particular skill that has been handed down in Bela Krajinan families for generations. We were able to take part and (attempt) to learn this skill while at''Gostišče Veselič''. The bread consists of flour, water, salt, yeast, cumin, egg, and sugar. From start to finish it takes a couple of hours to prepare and some much-needed patience. You can find the''exact recipe here''!\xa0Belokranjska Pogača is only offered by certified producers\xa0and is usually paired with a glass of wine or homemade brandy.''Despite the constant influx of fresh fruits, vegetables, and dairy one of our favorite meals was fresh grilled trout in Jelševnik. Cameron and I are pretty die hard seafood fans so it takes a lot to impress us. We weren’t expecting much from the Slovenian trout, but were delighted when our host, Richard, served up just caught trout, polenta, and roasted potatoes from his families local stream.''Having Fun Around the\xa0Slovenia''Getting drunk with the locals''The region of Bela Krajina may be relatively small, but they do have a brewery! In the United States, craft breweries are a huge market that have totally changed the beer industry. However, there is little to no breweries like this in Slovenia. The nation is just starting to introduce themselves to the concept of local and craft breweries. The husband and wife team behind Vizir Pivovarna, make quality beers without preservatives and artificial additives. \xa0They have an extensive range of different styles of beers and are constantly adding to their collection. We were able to do a full beer tasting, and ended up talking (and drinking) the night away. If you’re in the region then Vizir Pivovarna also delivers,''check them out here!''Egg Making!''One of the most popular souvenirs in Slovenia comes from Bela Krajina. The\xa0pisanica, a distinctively red and black colored egg is an object that can be found during the Easter holiday. There are few villages in the region that continue the tradition to color these eggs with precise skill. Fortunately, we were able to visit Nada, a local woman at Domača obrt Cvitkovič, that specializes in making the pisanica. \xa0Her eggs looked so beautiful we decided to try to make some ourselves! The trick in making the designs on these eggs is patience and very steady hands.''To make these eggs you must first draw on them with hot beeswax\xa0before dipping them in dyed red water. After the egg is dry you then repeat the designing process before dipping the same egg into black dyed water. After a day, the wax will peel off and a beautiful egg is ready for display.''Partaking in Tradition''We got to know the cheerful staff behind BigBerry pretty well, so on a quiet sunny Sunday afternoon, we went with them to Srednji Radenci. It was the day of the''21st annual international walk along the southernmost Slovenian footpath''! \xa0As foreigners, this really meant nothing to us, but we loved being able to hike through the beautiful region and feel at complete peace with nature. Most of the group ended up walking barefoot for almost 10 km for a natural foot massage. At the end of the path we were met with a giant Slovenian party, involving music, bean stew, and of course – wine.''Our luxury/nature time has now come to an end. As''we continue to explore Croatia''and the rest of the Balkans, we still think back on our time relaxing along the Kolpa river. It was our first taste of glamping, and it certainly won’t be our last.''Plan Your Trip to the Balkans''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in the Balkans:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''You may also like:''BigBerry Makes This Quiet Slovenian Countryside Glamorous''was last modified:''April 30th, 2017''by''Natasha''“What should I pack?” It’s a normal question we all ask ourselves. \xa0Our passion is travel, so naturally, we have compiled a personal list of awesome travel accessories.''We placed our top ten awesome travel accessories that we love to pack in this convenient list. It’s the kind of stuff we look back and go “how did we travel without that before?”''Buff UV Headwear''We both just added these to our packs, but we already know we’re going to love them. They’re extremely versatile, pack up next to nothing, and offer protection. They are one those super simple products that you wish you’d thought of yourself. The''Buff Headbands''are more or less a tube of microfiber polyester fabric that can stretch and fold up to be worn in a wide range of ways.''Buff UV Headwear''Price Varies''$15-30''Check the current price now!''Belkin Mini Three Outlet Travel Charger''In this day and age, it seems pretty hard to live without power. Between cameras,''travel laptops'', and cell phones something always needs to be charged. However, sometimes having access to a bunch of outlets isn’t possible or just makes things cluttered and disorganized. We love this power strip because of its size, the fact it can swivel, and it has two USB ports that help eliminate adapters for things like phones''or our GoPro''.''Belkin Travel Three Outlet Surge Protection''$18.99''Check the current price now''!''Lifestraw Go Water Bottle''We’re destroying our environment with plastic waste, but sometimes drinking tap water while traveling isn’t a viable option. So, in the past purchasing bottled water was the workaround for this, which is only adding to the waste we create. Now, we have a number of companies on the market who make water bottles geared for travelers and hikers to have safe drinking water on the go. We choose Lifestraw for their philanthropic work, and the easy to use design.''Lifestraw GO Waterbottle''$28.99''Check out the current price now!''Portable Power Charger''I spent some time scouring reviews and looking for a portable charger that gave me the most bang for my buck.''I came across the Anker Astro'', as did many other people. It has a serious amount of excellent reviews. What makes it special is the smart USB port that matches your phone or electronics ideal charging amperage, meaning your iPhone or android charges as fast\xa0as possible. A\xa0dead electronic only makes a good paper weight.''Anker Astro Portable Charger''$19.99''Check the current price now!''GoPro HERO4 Silver''Have we mentioned that we\xa0love our GoPro? Seriously, though we love it. It’s small, discreet, fun, and can go just about anywhere. It’s one of those things you quickly come to love and can’t imagine traveling without. We have a post here breaking down what GoPro we like, and the GoPro even has a''list of its own awesome\xa0travel accessories.''GoPro HERO4 Silver''$329.99''Check the current price now''!''[Check out our First Six Months of Travel Through the GoPro Lense Here!]''A Natural\xa0Sunscreen''We don’t think anyone would disagree about needing less environmental degradation and skin cancer in the world. When you’re traveling you’re often spending more time outdoors and at peak sun times, which means greater exposure. Having a good sunblock is crucial to ensure your skin stays healthy. The fact that the majority of sunblocks on the market contain chemicals that you should be dubious about putting on your skin and damage the environment means you should probably spend the extra dollars on a decent natural sunblock. We love''PEAK’s all natural sunblock''. Don’t forget to get the neck and the back of the hands!''PEAK All Natural Sunscreen''$19.99''Check the current price now!''Patagonia Nano Puff Jacket''If you’ve been following our blog or Instagram chances are you’ve seen Tasha sporting her favorite jacket. We also named this one of the''best packable down jackets''on the market after trying out a ton of other contenders. The''Patagonia Nano Puff Jacket''is lightweight, warm, and packs up into itself. Going with quality brands that stand behind their products and provide versatility is''crucial when packing for a trip around the world''. With a wide selection of colors and a great warranty, this jacket is a winner on our list of awesome travel accessories.''Patagonia Nano Puff Jacket''$184.90''Check the current price now!''Dry Sak''This is one that’s great for those who spend their time outdoors.''The Dry Sak''is a self-sealing dry pack that allows you to keep valuables, electronics, and whatever else safely stored away. It offers protection for''hiking in rainy mountains,''rafting down a river'', or''just getting caught in a rainstorm''at the wrong time. It only takes one time for this bag to be useful because that is all it takes for an iPhone to get ruined. We love the Dry Sak because of the external pocket, carrying strap, and sturdy design.''Dry Sak''$20.95 - 25.95''Check the current price now!''Portable Bluetooth Speaker''Music is pretty much a facet of life. Being able to take your music on the go and listen to it on the beach is great. The''Cambridge SoundWorks OontZ Angle 3''is weatherproof and comes with terrific reviews. It’s plenty small enough to throw in your day bag and head out for a day on the beach. To top it all off the tiny speaker sounds great and will be sure to keep you entertained. With a price tag of only $27.99, it was an easy decision to add it our list of awesome travel accessories.''Cambridge SoundWorks OontZ Angle 3''$27.99''Check the current price now!''Moleskin Classic Journal''Keeping a journal of your travels is timeless. It helps one digest the information they receive\xa0each day, and has proven mental health benefits. Moleskin’s line of journals is classic, well made, and stylish. We''both carry a moleskin journal''and love them for long plane rides, sitting in the back of the bus, or laying on the beach. If there is one travel accessory to carry out of the whole bunch it’s a good journal.''Moleskin Classic Journal''$16.96''Check the current price now!''Read Next:''Long Haul Flight Essentials to Always Travel With''The Five Best Packing Cubes For Long Term Travel''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''The Essential Beach Packing List for any Vacation''25 Packing Hacks For Your Next Trip • Pack Lighter, Smarter, and Faster''May 1, 2018''The Best Duffel Bag for Travel • Your Adventure Bag''April 10, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''15 Eco Friendly Products • Help Save the World (Travel Edition)''March 31, 2018''Ten Awesome Travel Accessories You Should Pack For Your Next Trip''was last modified:''November 13th, 2017''by''Cameron''We spent two weeks of our time in the beautiful Slovenian countryside with the luxury''glamp camp team at Big Berry''and loved exploring the region. However, sometimes you need a little time to do some “touristy” things or must visit locations.''With a full van and some morning coffee, we set out on the perfect day trip to discover two of Slovenia’s most popular destinations. If you’re looking for day trips in Slovenia, take some time to visit the one of the most famous caves in the world and the stunning Lake Bled.''See Some of the Most Famous Caves in the World''For anyone looking for a day trip out of Ljubljana, the Postojna Caves are a must. The Postojna Caves are located less than one hour outside of the capital city, Ljubljana, and are among some of the best cave formations in the world. We arrived bright and early with light crowds for early May. I\xa0have been in some amazing caves before, notably the\xa0Wieliczka Salt Mine Caves in Poland, the''Batu Caves in Kuala Lumpur'', and\xa0Hastings Caves in Tasmania, so I had very few expectations.''Read More: {''What’s it like to Glamp in Slovenia''?}''On our initial descent\xa0underground, we were amazed. There was a train underground to take visitors to the heart of the cave! I was feeling a bit lazy so I fell in love with the world’s only double track underground railway system as we flew past several kilometers of tunnels, subterranean halls, caverns, and amazing cave curtains.''At the end of the track, visitors .we were able to get off and explore the caves at our own pace with our wonderful guide by foot. We stopped frequently to marvel\xa0at the sheer mass of the cave and all of its interesting detail. My favorite part of the cave had to be the spaghetti hall gallery. One thing is for sure though, I could definitely see why this was one of the most famous caves in the world.''Courtesy of''Postojna Cave''I should mention that before you walk into the cave visitors will see hundreds of worm-like replicas, stuffed animals, and postcards. That’s because\xa0Postojna Cave is famous for the olm, a cave-dwelling salamander that is often nicknamed the “human fish.” At first, I thought this human fish was hideous, but after finding him in the cave and staring for 10 minutes I came to the conclusion he was adorable.''Courtesy of''Postojna Cave''About the Caves''The caves contain the only underground post office in the world. So send a postcard home!''10°C is the usual temperature in the cave''The caves were created by the Pivka River.''The caves are open all year round and cost €24 per ticket''Read More''{''Balkan Travel Tips To Know Before You Go''}''Don’t Miss Out on a Day Trip to Lake Bled''Most visitors that have researched Slovenia have probably come across photos of Lake Bled. If not, allow me to refresh your memory, they usually look something like this.\xa0DanFlyingSolo named it as one of''17 European Towns You Need to Visit in 2017''and this place is worth all the hype.''The town of Bled is surrounded by the snow-capped Julian Alps, and the town feels like a mixture of Bavaria and Eastern European lake towns''such as Ohrid.''It makes for an enjoyable to walk and even perfect to spend\xa0a whole vacation in, but the real charm lies in glacial made Lake Bled. More than two kilometers of crisp freshwater surround the iconic pilgrimage church''the Assumption of Maria. While you can catch great views from the Lake Bled Castle, that overlooks the lake. The church and the castle are easily accevisitors.''When we arrived it was getting late so the first thing we did was head to the castle to catch the astonishing view. The castle is open until 21:00 in the summer and cost €10.''[Check up to date times here]''Besides the panoramic views there is a lovely cafe, museum, gift shop, and you can take a full tour inside the castle.''Read More: {''How Much Does it Cost to Backpack Europe?''}''Next came the fun part, the part we had all been waiting for. Rowing around Lake Bled! We rented two separate row\xa0boats for an hour (€10 per boat), placed the two guys in the middle to row and set out to relax and enjoy the calmness of the water while the sun went down. Bled island is a focal point for the whole lake, and visitors can paddle right up the island of their dreams to explore a little. If''open, visitors can also duck inside the church for a visit.''Read More: {''Eating Healthy and Organic in Slovenia''}''We love capturing shots like this''with our GoPro''!''After you have spent the day on the lake you’re ready for some coffee an absolute must is to head to''Kavarna Park''for the famous Bled cream cake (''Kremšnita''). The cream cake is known as the symbol of Bled and consists of a golden crispy butter dough crust and vanilla cream, topped with whipped cream and a light layer of butter dough and finally finished with a good dose of icing sugar. Don’t think, just eat.''Read More: {''The Best Backpacks to Travel Europe With''}''After a full day at Postojna Caves and Lake Bled, it’s time to get back home, for us that was Big Berry Camp in Primostek. For anyone traveling in Slovenia, we highly recommend visiting the caves and Bled. It’s a small country so even if you only have a day, it’s well worth the visit.''Our Recommendations''Start early to make the most out of your day trip.''We recommend renting a car, so you can have freedom and flexibility when you travel through Slovenia. Our favorite to book through is Economy Bookings. [''Check here for the best prices.'']''For a fantastic lunch stop in''Restaurant Lectar and Gingerbread Museum''in\xa0Radovljica. They have delicious pumpkin soup, wine, and desserts!''Want to spend more than just a day in Bled? Check out more''things to do in Lake Bled''.''The best Apple Gelato I’ve ever had.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0The Balkans''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in the Balkans:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''Have you been to Slovenia? What was your favorite part of the country?''Thank you to Big Berry for making this trip possible. As always, all opinions are our own.''One of the Most Famous Caves in the World and More in Slovenia''was last modified:''January 28th, 2017''by''Natasha''We’ve been testing out our adventure skills while in Croatia and the rest of the Balkans. After''rock-climbing in Hvar''and''cycling in Niš''we decided we needed to get a little more…''wet.''That’s where the Cetina River came in! \xa0The Cetina river is a beautiful 63 mi long river in Croatia that flows straight into the crystal clear Adriatic Sea. \xa0T''he river makes for a great place to hang out by and enjoy a picnic; however, we were able to get even closer to it with''Adventure Dalmatia''.''Rafting Croatia’s Cetina River with Adventure Dalmatia''We were excited to wake up early in Split and spend the day in the sun getting active on the river. Cameron has whitewater kayaked numerous times, and I spent my summers at camp rafting the rivers in Wisconsin. It still had been quite a few years that either of us had taken part in the sport.''The day started with the Adventure Dalmatia team picking us up at the entrance to the famous Diocletian’s palace in Split. We hopped on a bus and were then transported to\xa0Zadvarje Village, our launch point,\xa0for a day of rafting. It took about 45 minutes to get to this point from Split, but we had a fun and lively group with us to keep us entertained!''Once we arrived, we picked out our wetsuits, helmets, life vests, and rubber boots\xa0before listening to a 10-minute safety briefing. Compared to other whitewater rafting experiences, I would say that the Cetina river is a “light” version. There are no class 5 rapids in Croatia, and it is likely that no one will be getting hurt while rafting the Cetina. Regardless, it’s always important to wear a helmet and life vest. Safety first!''Read Here:''Where to stay in Split on your next trip!''Unlike many other rafting trips, there is not a guide in each raft and there are only three people max per raft. Cameron and I got lucky and had a whole raft to ourselves! A little more arm work – but we didn’t mind! We were nestled in our raft,''had our handy GoPro fastened on'', and began paddling!''Our Guides''Although we didn’t have a guide on our particular raft, there were many that did. All of the guides on our tour were wonderful and skilled. They were always jumping into the freezing waters to assist wherever needed and were fun, engaging, and helpful! We felt comfortable with our leaders knowing they were certified by the International Rafting Federation and could speak both English and Croatian.''The Cetina River''The Cetina River is one of the most popular rivers in Croatia. Most people flock to the coast, but this river and its surroundings are stunning! The water flows calmly with many light rapids to keep the adrenaline pumping. \xa0Between the two of us we had a great time in the quiet parts of the river enjoying the sounds of the birds and trees blowing; but also couldn’t wait to battle the rapids!''As mentioned before, the Cetina River has fairly “light” rapids. Most are rated a whitewater grade of two or three, making rafting enjoyable for all fitness levels. \xa0Adventure Dalmatia operates daily in the summer time with a total rafting time equalling three hours. \xa0The distance from start to finish is about 7 miles so we felt we got a great upper body workout in! There are a few points where rafters can jump out and take a swim, but we weren’t quite brave enough to face the April weather.''Recommended for a day of Whitewater Rafting''Swimsuit''Towel''Change of clothes''Sunscreen''Drinking Water''A waterproof camera (''We love our GoPro!'')''We loved our rafting experience with Adventure Dalmatia! As always, all opinions remain our own.''Getting Wet & Wild Rafting Croatia’s Cetina River''was last modified:''November 4th, 2016''by''Natasha''There is rarely a destination that is only for one type of tourist, but some go beyond. The Croatian island of Hvar seems to deliver on almost all levels. There are some amazing things to do in Hvar and you definitely won’t be disappointed with the amount of choices here. It is a posh island getaway that serves up a laid-back Mediterranean vibe rich with heritage and history suitable for anyone wondering''where to go in Croatia''. The welcoming atmosphere on the sun-drenched island of Hvar is renowned, making it a well-known destination, yet it seems poised to grow even larger.''As celebrities like Beyonce, Prince Harry, Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise continue to make waves visiting on private yachts. Visitors are provided a chance to hike along ancient goat paths to abandoned villages, sun bath au natural\xa0in beautiful turquoise coves, race along dirt roads, dine on rich Adriatic seafood, and party late into the next morning. Hvar Town is unique in that it is for all–One can find yachts and sailboats lined up in the harbor while full-service resorts,\xa0hotels, hostels, and affordable apartments accommodate anyone.''Hvar town caters to all interests; We came to Hvar in search of some adventure and relaxation. This is precisely what we found.''Getting Familiar with Hvar Island''We arrived in Hvar town in mid-April. In true Hvar fashion, we were greeted with a bright, sunny day. It is one of the sunniest points in Europe and has pleasant weather almost year round. Our first afternoon in Hvar was spent getting acquainted with the town. It’s often the first thing we do when we arrive in a city. When viewing the old town Hvar the city remains visually the same as it did centuries earlier, roofs are red tiled, alleys are smooth marble. and porticos sit high above narrow alleys. Most alleys lead back into St. Stephens Square. Which, after six centuries of existence\xa0St. Stephens square remains the central point of Hvar, even in the off-season when locals congregate in the cafes lining the square. The harbor itself was quiet\xa0during April, aside from a few sailboats, it was empty in comparison to the summer months when yachts compete for space. April is the calm before the storm, yet locals remain relaxed in preparation for the thousands of visitors\xa0that will swell into the small town.''The city remains visually the same as it did centuries earlier, roofs are red tiled, alleys are smooth marble. and porticos sit high above narrow alleys. Most alleys lead back into St. Stephens Square. Which, after six centuries of existence\xa0St. Stephens square remains the central point of Hvar, even in the off-season when locals congregate in the cafes lining the square. The harbor itself was quiet\xa0during April, aside from a few sailboats, it was empty in comparison to the summer months when yachts compete for space. April is the calm before the storm, yet locals remain relaxed in preparation for the thousands of visitors\xa0that will swell into the small town.''Things to do on Hvar Island, Croatia''Hvar is filled with plenty to do and many places to do absolutely nothing. In one day you can go from floating in a turquoise bay, to off-roading along cliffside roads, and finish by dining on world class seafood. There is no shortage of activities on this island.''Head to the Pakleni Islands''Looking for the best place to stay in Hvar for nightlife? Head to the islands! The Pakleni Islands that is, which act as a natural barrier to the harbor of Hvar town. The 21 lush islands act as a refuge for yachts and a must for any trip to Hvar. The island chain consists of numerous bays of crystal clear water, stone beaches, and quiet lagoons. The largest of the island in the summer hosts a slew of yachts and features a party that extends well into the next morning. This is one of the''best summer party places in Europe!''However, in April the islands remain quiet asides from the occasional construction project as proprietors gear up for the busy season.''There are a number of ways to explore the islands. Water taxis run back and forth all day and night from Hvar to the Pakleni islands. The taxis leave from in front of the Arsenal, and take visitors to islands of''Jerolim''and''Stipanska'', which are considered some of the best nudist beaches in the world (although not officially condoned, yet). The taxis continue on to''Ždrilca''and''Mlini''and the\xa0last stop is''Palmižana''. Palmižana features several restaurants, guesthouses, and yacht harbor. It is the busiest of the islands and a must for those looking for something more than a beach.''Jerolim & Stipanska''kn40''One way''Water Taxi Cost''Ždrilca & Mlini''kn40''One way''Water Taxi Cost''Palmižana''kn60''One way''Water Taxi Cost''Rent your own boat to explore the Pakleni Islands.''If it’s in the budget or you can gather a group and rent a small boat and take a short boat ride around. Enabling you to explore any bay, lagoon, island, or restaurant you see fit. This means you can start your day off with some all natural bathing on the islands, followed by cliff diving, snorkeling, and a meal at a restaurant on Palmižana.''Small Motor Boat''kn500-800''Per Day''No license needed''Water taxis can get you to just about any of the Hvar points of interest. We found Mlini to be one of the most b''eautiful beaches on the islands''and highly recommend.''Hiking on Hvar Island''Hvar Island is a Mediterranean jewel with natural beauty that is hard to rival.\xa0Old roads form a network of trails throughout the Hvar region and they are slowly being reclaimed after being forgotten. These ancient roads extend back to the days when Greeks lived on the island a millennia ago. Unlike many of the islands in the region, Hvar is lush and filled with vegetation and interesting hiking trails. There are several highlights on the island that can be reached by simply walking out of town\xa0or taking a vehicle off-road, both of which we highly recommend. We set out for the small coastal town of Milna only a few kilometers from Hvar. It’s a small town with a few taverns for dining or having a cold Nescafe. If you’re looking for a more relaxing base you can find some great apartment rentals there. After a short hike out of town, old paths that used to connect the cities of Hvar head into the center of the island.''From Milna, you can venture inland towards the abandoned village of Velo Grablje. Our hike up to Velo Grablje involved strolling through the old valley and on to ancient paths that once connected Hvar to the town of Stari Grad on the opposite side of the island. The hiking paths of Hvar go through olive groves, lavender fields, vineyards, up over peaks, and along\xa0quiet bays. The tourism board of Hvar island offers a great hiking and cycling map you can pick up at their office located in Saint Stephens square.''The abandoned village of Velo Grablje\xa0was eerie and made for a wonderful stopping point to explore on our journey inland. The town was abandoned almost a hundred years prior due to a decimation of crops.''Dining in Velo Grablje''The village of Velo Grablje may have no inhabitants, but it does have one restaurant. The restaurant,''Stori Komin'', references to the classic hearth used to prepare meals for centuries. Our meal consisted of regional products starting with local wine, prosciutto, cheese, and vegetables. Wine aficionados cover your eyes, but the\xa0meals are often complimented with bevanda, a\xa0regional beverage of wine and water mixed, which is refreshing after a long hike on a hot day.''Climbing St. Nikola''The highest point on the island is St. Nikola which refers to the peak and the tiny church that sits atop it. Anyone seeking a good adventure or hike will be sure to find plenty of enjoyment hiking up to the peak where they will be rewarded with views of Hvar, the Dalmatian Coast, and surrounding islands. After working up a sweat climbing to the peak we suggest climbing back down to Sveta Nedjelja to see the hidden cave church.''Below the church is the renowned vineyards of Hvar that lie on the steep coastline facing South to take full advantage of the 2,720 plus hours of sunlight Hvar receives a year. Continue down into town to have a wine tasting at Zlatan otok, and cool down in the waters below.''Jeep Safari''For those who wish to explore the islands off-road tracks, a 4×4 safari can be an excellent option. The off road truck gives you the ability to dive deeper into the island to interesting points seldom known. \xa0It’s great for those who don’t feel like trekking through the heat or are looking for something more exciting.''Secret Hvar''provides guided tours through the history of the island as you ride through off-road tracks exploring the local flora and fauna.''A favorite of ours was the history of lavender on the island. We found the web of stone walls that blanket much of the island to be fascinating. We were also able to properly learn about the history of the production of the fragrant flower that can still be found in large fields throughout the island. Hvar was once the largest producer of the fragrant flower, and still, produces some of the finest in the world with its ideal climate. However, production of the famous Hvar product has now become a local affair grown primarily in smaller batches for residents and tourists visiting the region.''ATV tours''Exploring the island on your own accord definitely, makes for a fun filled adventure. We got our quad from''IZI''Rent''and it enabled us to explore the whole island of Hvar. We spent the day riding down the southern coast up over the ridge and on to Jelsa. IZI Rent had a nice selection of cars, quads, buggies, and scooters to choose from. We decided to go with a 500 cc quad to give us a little extra power climbing the hills.''We love our GoPro for shots like this!''Swimming''You don’t have to leave the main island to find beautiful bays, coves, and beaches. With proper transportation, you can find many splendid swimming holes throughout the island. The best way we found beaches was simply to explore. We had a great afternoon as we rode along the southern road high above beautiful bays pulling off towards the smaller towns to explore the surrounding coves. Our favorite would be Dubovica just a short drive out of Hvar town, be prepared for a 10-minute hike down to the beach.''Rock Climbing''We set out looking for some different activities that the island had to offer. We got in contact with''& Adventure''who had the only rock climbing routes that offered impressive views over Hvar Town.''Cliff Diving''During the month of April, it was too cold for us to get much enjoyment out of this one. However, we are told there are a number of spots where the locals and a few brave tourists alike go for a quick dive down into deeper waters. One of the best points for cliff diving in Hvar is just outside of Hvar town itself. With a cliff that drops straight down into deeper water, it is safe to jump from several points ranging from a few meters to 25. Check out the photo below to find the location. Or if you get lost just ask any local and they will happily point you in the right direction.''Snorkeling/Diving''The tranquil bays rich in marine life that surrounds Hvar make for an entertaining place to snorkel. You can see locals slipping into the water themselves as they go spear fishing for grouper and other varying types of fish. For those who have a passion for diving, you can contact one the local dive centers to check out an ancient Greek shipwreck. The seabed, now protected, is littered with amphoras. Combine this with the crystal clear Adriatic seawater for an interesting and unique dive.''Sea Kayaking''Sea Kayaking on the island of Hvar is another popular way to explore both Hvar and the Pakleni islands. Some of the great spots for sea kayaking can be found along the southern coast of the island below massive red cliffs, and around\xa0the Pakleni islands.''The Best Place to Stay in Hvar?''Sunčani Hvar''When looking for the best place to stay in Hvar Island it is impossible to miss the Sunčani Hvar hotel group. They offer a wide range of hotels and are the largest provider of full-service accommodation on the island. The two largest properties on the island are the Adriana and the Amfora. During our stay in Hvar,''we stayed at the Hotel Adriana''located right along the harbor. This is definitely one of the nicer places to stay on the island and provides a plethora of romantic things to do in Hvar.''Upon our arrival, we were greeted with Prosecco and warm towels before being whisked away to our rooms. Our room was large and featured a comfortable sitting room. Our service did not stop there as we were greeted with fresh flowers, macaroons, and a welcome letter. Looking for the best area to stay in Hvar, Croatia as well? The hotel offers some of the best views of the harbor and this was no exception for our room.''Check Prices Here!''You can wake up with your bedroom\xa0windows open to the harbor winds. Breakfast is the best spread of health food options I have ever seen, featuring items such as a milk bar, fresh dragonfruit juice, homemade\xa0kefir, loose leaf teas, oils, fresh fruits, chia seeds, charcuterie, and plenty of roasted veggies. We paired breakfast with a glass of Rose and watched the day begin in the harbor.''In the afternoon, it is great to head for the\xa0fresh saltwater pool. April provided the perfect temperature with cool water and air that was warm enough to keep comfortable. We spent an afternoon swimming in the pool and lounging around their rooftop cabana. The rooftop is replete with numerous lounges perfect for relaxing and enjoying the sun or shade.''Which, if you come for nothing else you should head to the Adriana for its chic rooftop bar overlooking the harbor. We have Croatian friends that travel to Hvar Island solely for this view! The rooftop has a wonderful selection of drinks\xa0and a selection of food to choose from should you get hungry. We always love an afternoon snack after swimming in the pool and lounging in the sun.''Our room had everything we could need. Including a humongous closet, full sized bed, waterfall shower, and even a two-person whirlpool bathtub. We had no trouble relaxing and enjoying our time while staying in the Hotel Adriana.''Or Try Airbnb''For those of you who prefer to self-cater instead of staying at a Hvar Island hotel, there are also plenty of apartments you can rent on the island. All around the island during busy season locals rent out their apartments to visitors.''We always use Airbnb''to find a home away from home, and you can use our''link here''for $20 off your first booking.''Where to Eat in Hvar Town''Seated right in the Adriatic sea there is no shortage of rich seafood to be had while staying in Hvar. The sea itself is famed for its high salinity producing a bountiful selection of fish for dining that is delicious with minimal seasoning. We were told that you simply have to boil the fish for a delicious meal. Given the rich clientele that visit the island, a history of artisanal products, and an island rich in flora it should be no surprise that you will not go hungry while in Hvar.''Gariful''If there is a place to dine with celebrities''Gariful''is likely the spot. We had a fantastic meal of local fresh Adriatic seafood paired with a wonderful Hvar wine. Our meal consisted of fresh octopus, prawns, sardines, sea bass, calamari, and mussels. For anyone who loves seafood, it was truly a spectacular meal. Their impressive wine list will be sure to please any type of wine connoisseur. \xa0We found Gariful to deliver some of the best services in all of Croatia, boasting true island hospitality.''Mizarola''For a more budget option, there is Mizarola. Serving up pizza, fish, risottos, and a nice selection of items to keep just about everyone happy. You’ll find locals hanging out here enjoying a beer or cafe watching the buzzing piazza it sits in.''Stori Komin''As mentioned before this restaurant is located in an abandoned town. Here you will find “no menu, no Coca-cola, and no french\xa0fries” It is simply local and traditional Hvar food. Such as, wonderful lamb and potatoes cooked over coals.''Where to Drink Wine on Hvar''Hvar is an island with Greek, Roman, Balkan, and Croatian influences. This translates to tons of wine consumption. The rich natural environment of the famous south facing slopes of Hvar produces grapes high in sugar with all the sunlight that washes over them. Hvar is wine country and it is hard to go anywhere on the island and not find a vineyard hiding somewhere. They range from family-sized to larger producers, some even garnering international attention. We particularly enjoyed the wines from Andro Tomic and Zlatan Otok.''Vineyards''Zlatan Otok''The wines from Zlatan Otok are said to be some of the finest in the region and Hvar. The winery has an underwater tasting room located in Sveta Nedjelja, giving visitors an extraordinary experience. However, we’re sorry to say that Zlatan himself passed away shortly before our arrival on the island and we were unable to visit the winery. We do hope that his family continues to produce more great wines for the island of Hvar.''Andro Tomic''Our favorite wine we’ve had from the''Balkan region''came from Andro Tomic. We had his 2015\xa0Beleca and found it to be a fantastic compliment to our meal at Gariful. It’s most similar in taste to some Savougaun Blancs we’ve had in the past light, crisp and florally.''The History of Hvar Island''Hvar town itself has a timeless air to it. The building facades of the city center remain relatively unchanged after centuries. The town owes its character to the Venetians who took control of the island in 1278. They set about building a large stone fort atop the hill overlooking the island for its strategic placement.''Hvar Fortress''The current fortress dates back to 1551 when and was expanded to protect the citizens of Hvar during the Turkish invasion in 1571. However, due to an explosion of gunpowder in 1579 much of the fort was badly damaged and was repaired decades later in the early 17th century. The city walls and the fortress that sits above Hvar town are still very much present today.''Benedictine\xa0Convent''The Benedictine Convent moved into Hvar town in 1664 and holds a nice collection of arts. The fame of the convent comes from the lace they produce\xa0from agave threads. The art of lace making dates back to the 18th century and is on the UNESCO list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. The small lace patterns are available for purchase and make a truly special gift.''Historic Theatre''The theater, attached to the Arsenal, was the first public theater in Europe. Founded in 1612 the theater was open to all after a brief rebellion over the dissatisfaction of the class system in Hvar. The interior of the theater dates to 1803 when the theater society was founded.''Summerhouse of the Poet Hanibal Lucić''This prized piece of architecture sits just outside the old town of Hvar and was once on the road linking Stari Grad and Hvar. It is a classic example of a suburban home with two houses and a central garden. The estate served as both a residence and place of business of the famous Poet Hanibal Lucić.''St. Mary of Grace''The church of St. Mary of Grace is a single nave gothic church built in the 15th century. \xa0It features a number of Renaissance pieces of artwork and is the resting place of the local poet Lucić.''Hvar Island Nightlife''The hedonistic like atmosphere surrounding Hvar is certainly one that deserves its infamy. During the summer months, the town of Hvar and the Pakleni islands see both Yacht Week and Ultra Europe as massive draws. While the beach bars produce parties almost every night throughout the summer. Some of the best clubs on Hvar island are:''Hula Hula''If you’re looking for some day drinking and aprés-beach relaxing then Hula Hula is the place for you. Situated just west of Hvar Town you can walk out of the city center along the coast to the humming beach bar. It’s frequented by just about everyone and was even visited by Beyonce and Jay-Z for those who are fans of pop-culture.''Carpe Diem''This is probably the most famous club in the region and if you’ve already been planning on visiting Hvar island you’ve likely stumbled across it a few times. Beach revelers should head to Stipanska Island on the Pakleni Islands. Carpe Diem more or less operates 24 hours a day serving up drinks to sunbathers during the day and music to a large crowd late into the next morning.''Central Park Club''Located in central Hvar this bar features live music every night in the high season and has one of the best atmospheres on the island. Much like the island of Hvar this bar is for everyone or anyone looking to hear some live music and have a drink.''How to Get to Hvar''There are two main ways on the island – fly or take one of the many boat options.''Sea''Ferry''The primary way to get to Hvar island is from Split.\xa0Jadrolinija is the main ferry provider in Croatia. They have two different\xa0schedules – one for the high season and another for the low season. You can find more info on Jadrolinija''here''. All of the larger ferries arrive in Stari Grad which then requires a bus ride to Hvar Town, bus times usually coincide with ferry arrival times. International ferries from Ancona are also possible via Jadrolinija.''Catamaran''The fastest and most convenient way to travel via public transport are the catamarans. Their smaller size also allows for them to arrive directly in the town of Hvar. More info about locations that they operate from can be found''here''.''Yacht''If you’re arriving by yacht you probably already know what you’re doing or have a crew who does. However, Hvar Town and the surrounding marinas in the summertime swell with yachts and sailboats from around the world.''Flights to Hvar Island''Seaplane''It is possible to arrive via Seaplane, and for quite an affordable price. We considered flying in just for the novelty and sheer convenience of arriving via Seaplane. Check out''European Coastal Airlines''for flight times, prices, and locations.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Hvar''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation on Hvar:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'', or to feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to Hvar:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''You May Also Like:''Save Money for Travel • 25 Tips That Will Change Your Life''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''Balkans Travel Itinerary: The Best Eastern European Cities to Visit''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''April 12, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Traveling the Balkans? Here are 10 Must See Balkan Cities''February 22, 2018''Things to on Hvar Island, Croatia + Important Travel Info''was last modified:''April 7th, 2018''by''Cameron''Many travelers\xa0think of Croatia as either a party destination\xa0or a chill beach hangout. \xa0I assure you that this Balkan country is certainly both of these things, but there is also many activities to do for the adventure seekers. Now don’t get me wrong, I love a nice cocktail (or a few), and to chill on the beach. However, sometimes we are just craving the three A’s – Activity, Adventure, and Adrenaline.''Rock Climbing in Hvar with\xa0& Adventure''We jump started our weekend with rock-climbing in Hvar. Located just a 15-minute walk from Hvar Town center is the perfect base to position ourselves for a day of climbing fun. \xa0I haven’t “rock-climbed” since summer camp in my teens when a wall and pegs were the substitutes for mountains. Cameron had never been climbing in his life, so these daunting rocks that awaited was essentially a first for both of us.''I say daunting, but the climb was very suitable for beginners like us. Our guide, Kristian, went over the proper safety requirements and showed us how to belay and tie the correct knots.Kristian has clearly been climbing for a number of years and is one of the top guides on the island – making us feel completely safe and comfortable. After he climbed the first rock to set up the ropes, it was our turn.''The first climb up was difficult at first, but we quickly got used to climbing outdoors and couldn’t wait to keep going. The best part about rock climbing in Hvar is the view of the picturesque town of the clear Adriatic behind it. Both Cameron and I reached the top of the first climb and just sat in our harness breathing in the fresh, unpolluted air of the island.''We continued to ascend on two other different rocks, gradually moving up in difficulty. When we got stuck,Kristian was screaming from the bottom “left hand up” and “push with your right foot.” After much determination, we summited one of the harder peaks, and the feeling of completion for beginners like us was extremely rewarding.''As I mentioned, it was our first time rock climbing outdoors which is completely different from indoor climbing. When you are outdoors in nature you have to make your own path. One wrong move can result in a head injury (always wear a helmet) and the wind and weather can make the experience more difficult. Not to mention, climbing with nature can be exhilarating but also slightly scary. Cameron is afraid of heights so climbing in Hvar gave him the perfect opportunity to step out of his comfort zone. After an exciting day and hard work out, we determined we love rock-climbing, and I particularly can’t wait to go again! I’m thinking a new goal will be to rock climb on every continent!''Gear used for Rock Climbing:''Helmet''Rock Climbing shoes''Harness''Karabiners''Ropes''What to Bring for Rock Climbing:''Warm clothes and mobile pants (It gets windy!)''Walking Shoes''Camera (''We recommend using a GoPro for adventures like these'')''Sunglasses and Sunscreen''Water''Scams seem to have just become another part of travel. I’m sure everyone has a great story of that time they were scammed here or that time that man ripped you off there. No matter how long you have been traveling or how many countries you have traveled to, I don’t believe you are ever truly safe from being taken advantage of. I love a good scam story, so I asked travel bloggers from around the globe to share their best one!''Travel Scams Around the Globe''DJ from\xa0Dream Euro Trip\xa0got scammed in Belgrade''We’ve been taking taxis around the''Serbian capital''during our trip there but unfortunately, on our last night at''4 AM'', we were victims of the taxi scam in Belgrade. Like in other cities where taxi scams are omnipresent, it’s always about taking the wrong taxi. We took the illegal one where the taxi meter is running by the hundreds even if we didn’t even get farther than half a kilometer. We noticed it and decided to get out of the taxi when it stopped at a stoplight. We were running away from the taxi when one of my friends fell down hard on the road because the taxi driver ran after us and pushed her. He then ran away and my friend got up and had bruises all over her feet and arms. It was a hot mess.''Claudia Tavani from''My Adventures Across the World''was scammed in Cuba''In Cuba, people celebrate their birthdays every day, or so it seems. Either that\xa0or their father dies every day. It is actually very common to meet persons in Cuba who go around claiming things such as “today it is my birthday” or “my dad has just passed away.” And it is oh so sad (I am being sarcastic!) that they never have a friend to celebrate with, or a relative to mourn together. This is a common scam technique that should make any tourist run away. The aim of this scam is to make the tourist feel such pity that he will eventually offer a drink, a meal or even money to the birthday boy or the mourning man – obviously at a place of his choosing, where he is likely to get a commission for bringing in customers. The best thing to do when hearing the words “today it is my birthday” is to just walk away, as fast as possible.''Joanna from''The World In My Pocket''got scammed in\xa0Pushkar''When you travel to Pushkar, India, pay attention to the fake priests. Once you enter one of the ghats, a man will usually greet you and tell you to take your shoes off. Then he will grab your hand and take you down to the lake, without you being able to protest, he will be very persuasive. Once at the lake, he will start saying something in Hindi, he will paint a red and orange dot on your forehead and tie a string on your hand. Then he will ask you to repeat some words after him. At the end, he will ask for money. The problem is that it is just the two of you there and you can’t just walk away.''He will start negotiating, “one hundred for your mother, one hundred for your father, one hundred for your sister” and so on.''The best thing to do is to say a firm no when they try to approach you, on top of the ghat.''Elena from''Travelability Blog''got scammed in Prague''This is not exactly a scam, but something definitely worth knowing to avoid an unpleasant surprise. Czech Republic still has not transferred to Euro, so you would need to exchange your money in your first hours in Prague. And if you just go to a random exchange boot, even if the rates advertised outside look good, I bet you would be disappointed with the amount in Czech Korunas you would get. Almost all offices in Prague either charge a solid commission for every transaction or offer the good rate only for the amounts above $1,000 (and that would be the rates advertised in large font outside). To avoid losing money, you need to know one of several “secret” exchange spots that actually give fair rates. The one which is the easiest to find is located in the very center of Prague Old Town, at the corner of Kaprova and Maiselova streets, just few meters away from Staromestska Square. Or you can just withdraw cash from an ATM, if you bank is reasonable with commissions.''Carole from''Travels with Carole''got scammed in Gibraltar''When we arrived in Gibraltar, we had only a few hours to do the sights.\xa0 I’d heard there was a taxi tour up to the top of the rock to see the famous apes.\xa0 After driving around for a while and being unable to find any staging area with taxis, I stopped in a hotel to ask for directions.\xa0 Instead, the nice lady at the desk offered to call a taxi for me.\xa0 We parked our car, hopped in, and discovered the fee was way more than it should be.\xa0 Too late.\xa0 We wound up being charged about three times what I had expected.\xa0 But as scams go, this one was mild.\xa0 We had a wonderful time, got some great photos, and regret only being taken advantage of.''Elena from''Travelability''got scammed in Bangkok''In Thailand scams are abundant but fortunately standard enough to recognize them easily if you are warned in advance. Here is one of the most popular ones: you are walking to see one of Bangkok’s main attractions, e.g. Grand Palace (Wat Phra Kaew). Some friendly Thai person speaking very good English approaches you and ask politely, where are you from and where are you going. When you answer, he warns you that the Palace is closed today for a special royal event (such bad luck!). After you show your disappointment, he offers you a tour to other great temples on his tuk-tuk very cheaply. Then he either charges your several times the normal price for a ride or takes you to some affiliated shops or tour agencies that pay him commissions. And needless to say – the Grand Palace is probably opened to public on this day as usual! If a Thai man approaches you first, without being asked for help and he speaks good English, he is probably a scammer.''Jordan from''Tiki Touring Kiwi''got scammed in Cambodia''Overlanding from Thailand to Cambodia, via Poipet is not the most fun border crossing. My first attempt I got dropped off 500 meters from the border, taken to a room and told that I needed a visa before getting to immigration. Not knowing any better, I agreed and paid $50 for a visa.''My second trip to Cambodia was to get a Russian visa. To apply for the visa, I required a Cambodian tourist visa valid for a minimum of 3 months. Arriving at the border, I walked straight to the scammers and asked if they could organize three months, rather than the regular one month.''“No problem man, we can do that. It’s even on our sign up here.”''The cash I handed over would mean a faster and cheaper visa than an official procedure. Thirty \xa0minutes later, I joined up with the ‘middle man’ again with a brand new visa in my passport. Valid for one month! I was livid but in no mans land. I had no choice but to accept I was out scammed by the scammers.''Kylie from''Between England and Iowa''got scammed in Budapest''I came across a travel scam while in Budapest, it’s only small in comparison to some out there but still annoying none the less!\xa0 I was buying a tram ticket from the vending machine on the platform. I stood waiting for my change, coins were returned fine but the note dispenser whirred and nothing came out.\xa0 On closer inspection I discovered that the slot had been completely blocked up with a\xa0wet tissue.\xa0 I dug it out and managed to use 2 keys like a pair of tweezers to free the note, so actually managed to get it back with a bit of effort!\xa0 As I walked away, I saw a guy go over to the machine and put more tissue into the slot, he then got onto the same tram as me, got off at the next station and done exactly the same to the machine on that platform too!''The World Pursuit (Hi!) got scammed in Morocco''After spending four weeks in the North African country we thought we had seen every scam in the book. I mean this country is''known for the scams'', so we thought we were prepared. However, we became very enchanted by the friendly people and beautiful surroundings in\xa0Tetouan leading us to let our guards down. Sure enough, an hour later we were arguing because we had just been scammed. We wanted to take the bus to the\xa0beautiful''blue city of Chefchauoen''but it wasn’t leaving for three hours. A\xa0local man in an orange vest appearing to look like a bus station worker quickly approached us telling us about a taxi that would take us for 50 dirham ($5). We couldn’t decide if he was just being nice or if we were being scammed. So we took a chance and followed him to this “taxi.” Five minutes later and we began giving each other the “I think we are getting scammed” look. The man knew it was a scam, we knew we were getting scammed, and the man knew we knew we were getting scammed. It was too late to get out of the ordeal. He brought us to a different bus station, mumbled some words in Arabic to the taxi drivers, and told us the driver refuses to take us. Our only option was the local bus (not recommended for foreigners). The man demanded 30 dirham ($3) and would not take us back to the closer and newer bus station that we had left 20 minutes prior. We were pissed off and just decided to pay him his money and get on the next bus outta there!''It seems the general consensus is to always trust your gut! Do you have any interesting scam stories to share?''Travel Scams Around the Globe''was last modified:''November 4th, 2016''by''Natasha''The whole Island feels old, the British Isles, is famed for the aura that they give off, an aura that is both dreary and beautiful.''Rolling hills are flanked with outcrops of moss covered rocks, and flocks of sheep roam in fenced pastures, while stone homes dot the landscape, and it is something that looks and feels as if out of a fairy tale; the English countryside has a unique charm and feels that is its own.''Anyone traveling to the U.K., which has many travelers, should get out and visit the countryside even if only for a day. There are plenty of options for great towns and cities, York, Bath, Cornwall, Brighton, and Norfolk.''Bath, England''I found the star of the bunch to be Bath. When selecting a weekend get-away from London, Bath becomes an easy decision for convenience, price, culture, and ambiance. The city is a well-preserved treasure of Georgian architecture that is complemented by trendy shopping piazzas and a Roman bath that still holds thermal waters. The Roman bath is the largest draw of the city and where the cities namesake comes from.''As to the Georgian architecture, The Grand Royal Crescent showcases Georgian Architecture at its peak. With three Michelin starred restaurants in the area, charming English cafes, chic bars, and plenty of classic English pubs finding something to eat in the city is anything, but a struggle. Upon arrival it becomes easy to understand why Jane Austen set two of her six published books in Bath, even living in the city for 5 years herself.''Pultney Bridge in Bath | © Randy Robertson/Flickr''Location''The city once served as a weekend getaway for the British aristocracy coming from London, and it is still convenient to do so. Travel to Bath can also be very affordable.''Coaches from London can be had for several quid and take only a couple of hours to Bath. Located in the center of Somerset region, is surrounded by a region rich in heritage, natural landscapes, and food.''Euphoria in classic Roman Baths''The Roman Baths are a key attraction. Still fed by a natural hot spring spitting out water at a steamy 46 C it’s not difficult to imagine what it was like back in ancient times. Attached to the Roman baths is the “Pump Room,” a restaurant now serving afternoon tea, and even some of the mineral spring water. Built in 70 AD the ruins are now considered to be one the best preserved Roman ruins in the world. Entry into the museum truly transports visitors to a steamy ancient Roman Bath, providing a true immersion to the former days of an empire.''The Roman Baths | © Iker Merodio/Flickr''Afternoon Tea''Having afternoon tea is pretty much the quintessential English experience, and an experience all should have. Bath has a wide selection of tea houses to select from, offering all the dainty sandwiches and scones you can eat. Don’t forget a lashing of clotted cream.''The Pump Room''As mentioned before the having tea at the Pump Room is a classic affair in Bath. They offer a wide selection of loose leaf teas to select from, and scones with a lashing of clotted cream. It dates back to the Georgian period and has remained the place to have tea when visiting Bath.''Sally Lunns''If you’re looking for a class establishment to have your afternoon tea you can not go wrong with Sally Lunns. Located in the one of the oldest buildings in Bath Sally Lunns lives up to its famous reputation. The draw here is for their famous Sally Lunn buns, a cross between brioche bread and a bun. They offer selections such as walnut butter, dulce de leche milk jam, and Ivy House clotted cream.''Sally Lunn plaque | © Matt Brown/Flickr''Bea’s Vintage Tearoom''Located right next to Bath’s Assembly Room and the Fashion Museum, the tearoom is right at the center of town. The interior is decorated with old Wartime Posters, patterned tablecloths, and delicate tea sets. Have a generous helping of some jam and clotted cream with your scone while enjoying the positively English atmosphere.''Bath Abbey''Reaching out above the Roman baths is the wonderful Bath Abbey, known for being one of the last grand cathedrals to be built in U.K., check out the western side to find angels climbing up and down ladders depicting a dream had by the founding bishop. The Abbey was constructed in the 12th century and is a terrific embodiment of perpendicular Gothic architecture. A key focal point of the cathedral is its unique fan vaulting ceiling found only in a handful of historical buildings still standing in England.''Georgian Architecture Abounds''Another must see is the Pulteney Bridge and weir, two beautiful pieces of architecture, both of which are UNESCO World Heritage sites. It features shops on both sides and spans across the Avon River. The best views are had from perusing the shops and catching glimpses out the windows.''While the waterside park offers a view of the bridge overlooking the weir. For those that are movie buffs, the weir is where Javert, in Tom Hooper’s Les Miserables, takes his life by plunging into the water feature below.''Royal Crescent''Other must-see sites are the Royal crescent, Victoria Park (my favorite), The Bath Assembly Rooms, the Fashion Museum, and Prior Park. The shopping in the city is unrivaled, although they aren’t anything special it was the first time I walked into both a lush and H&M (the jacket I was wearing when I met Tasha came from here, and she just learned that reading this). To me as an American, it reminded me of Charleston\xa0with great food, and beautiful promenades with plenty of shopping. There are plenty of boutique shops to go window-shopping here, but those of us on a budget it’s probably best to just enjoy the sites of fashion.''After a day of wandering around the city, it’s great to settle down and have a pint in one of the many pubs spread throughout the city. Bath is positively English, charming, and unique, I would say a must for anyone with the time or desire to visit to do so. With the close proximity to London makes it only make it that much more appealing.''Read Next:''Edinburgh’s Hogmanay • Celebrating New Year’s Eve in Scotland''January 21, 2018''The 10 Best Road Trips in the World''January 8, 2018''10 Things to Know Before you Travel to Scotland''November 28, 2017''Scotland’s North Coast 500 in Video''November 19, 2017''Bath, England The Perfect Weekend Escape''was last modified:''November 13th, 2017''by''Cameron''The travel buzz about Kotor, Montenegro is swirling. When\xa0considering where to spend a summer in Montenegro, Kotor is an easy choice. This Adriatic\xa0gem is appearing\xa0on everyone’s travel radar\xa0and it was an easy destination decision for us on our Balkan tour. When Tasha visited Kotor in 2012 it was still “relatively undiscovered.” However, after Lonely Planet’s naming of Kotor as one of the''best places to travel''in 2016, the destination is picking up speed fast. Yet,\xa0Kotor is striving hard to keep it’s atmosphere despite the cruises that continue to cycle through and we still wanted to find out the best things to do in Kotor. The city may have no beaches, and no grand site to see, yet there seems to be this allure that continues to draw a large audience.''What’s the deal with Kotor, Montenegro?''Kotor''is a moody well-preserved former Venetian city\xa0inhabited by less than 13,000 people. Once visitors pass through the city walls a labyrinth of marbled streets, old lamps, stones houses, and quiet piazzas await them. The old city is fortified and encompassed by imposing stone walls while the town itself sits at the foot of a gorgeous Adriatic bay with the\xa0Dalmatian mountains rising high up above turquoise waters. Some refer to the Bay of Kotor as being the southernmost Fjord in Europe, and with the stunning beauty of the bay it is easy to see why. It’s a magical destination that feels as if you’ve taken a step back into time. It didn’t take much convincing to get Tasha to return as we made our way''North through the Balkans.''Things to do in Kotor''Explore Old Town!''The charm of Kotor is undeniable. It is a wonderful city to meander through old streets and piazzas. We found joy in walking in circles around the old town. When you’re done meandering through town, Kotor is the perfect place to enjoy a cafe while basking in the sun and enjoying a stunning view. Every hour the church bells ring adding to the ambiance and magic of Kotor. The central point of the town is the''Cathedral of Sveti Tripun'',\xa0it is a cathedral that dates back to 12th century. The allure of city\xa0extends beyond the city walls and into surrounding area of the bay with places such as Perast, Tivat, and Herceg Novi.''Climb up\xa0to the hilltop fortress''Out of all the things to do in Kotor, this is my number 1. Climbing the 1350 steps to the Castle of San Giovanni is\xa0a right of passage when visiting Kotor. \xa0It is one of the main attractions in Kotor, and from the castle the views over the bay are incredible.\xa0The initial ascent will be\xa0met with some huffs and puffs, but the top of the fortress is spacious and offers some exploration while overlooking the region. \xa0The climb takes\xa0about an hour to complete and the descent is always easier. \xa0We suggest climbing the hill in the morning to catch the best views,\xa0and it makes for a great start for the day. For the active bunch, you could throw on those running shoes for a heart pumping morning workout.''Enjoy the restaurants and cafes''There are plenty of cafes\xa0to relax in and wonderfully quaint piazzas to dine in while\xa0visiting and checking out all the things to do in Kotor. Visitors have\xa0a wide variety of places to eat in and around Kotor, making it the perfect location for a summer in Montenegro. Our favorite places marry rich seafood from the nearby Adriatic Sea and ambiance of the region.''Restaurant Galion:''You won’t be disappointed here. The classy''Galion''serves up wonderful food\xa0with stunning views of The Bay of Kotor sitting on glass terrace over the water. They serve up some of the best fish in town with splendid Montenegrin wines.''Ćatovića Mlini:''Tucked away in the Bay of Kotor is''Ćatovića Mlini''is a splendid hidden gem in Montenegro. As we’ve said one of the greatest draws of Kotor is the ambiance.\xa0Ćatovića Mlini is located in a former farm along the bay nestled against the rising mountain ridge.''Astoria:''Tasha would kill me if I didn’t include this one, but for a delicious dessert head to Astoria. It has an adjoining''hotel''with a hip interior that exhibits the local atmosphere. \xa0Ask for the Molten Chocolate Cake. You won’t be disappointed.''Restaurant Conte:''For location,''this restaurant''takes the cake for us. Conte is reputed for being one of the best restaurants in Montenegro serving up great fresh seafood from the local fisherman of Perast. Perast is the town over from Kotor, and a must for those with the time. Read on below for more.''Visit Perast, a beautiful escape from Kotor''About a 20-minute bus ride north of Kotor is the small village of Perast. \xa0Take the Blue Line bus that runs every 30 minutes along the main road to reach the town\xa0(€1.20). The town resides on a hill along the Kotor Bay coastline. \xa0There are locals around, but the area is known for being a quiet reprieve to enjoy the bay. No cruise ships drop anchor in Perast, so you already know you are beating those crowds. \xa0There are several\xa0old churches and museums to venture into, but we found the real charm to lie in just soaking\xa0in the ambiance of the cafes frequented by the locals.''Wisteria Abounds''We found one of the most beautiful spots we’ve ever found in the Perast. It was a small patio replete with concrete columns and fragrant wisteria. It was a photographers paradise. And of course, we had to do a handstand. We get a lot of questions on where to find this location and I don’t know the exact name of it. All I can say is that is right along the water past many of the main shops in Perast. The town is not that big so it shouldn’t be too hard to find. The photo below was taken in early April.''Check hotel rates in Kotor!''Visit “Our Lady of the Rocks”''There are two islands right off the shore of Perast that can be reached by boat for €5 a person. One of the islands is private so the boat will not be able to dock there, but it makes for great photos. There are also a few restaurants to have a bite to eat in, and small guesthouses in Perast also double as cafes.''Kotor is sure to be a highlight of anyone’s trip to Montenegro or around Europe for that matter. It is one of the most beautiful''destinations we’ve been to in the Balkans''and can not suggest it enough. The city is readily accessible with buses running daily from Dubrovnik, Tirana, Mostar and many more cities in the region.''Finding bus times to Kotor''Bus Ticket 4 ME''– We found this site after some searches for bus times in Montenegro. Reliable and offered the ability to book online, which is nice if you have access to a printer and would prefer to use a credit card. 😉''Croatia Bus'': \xa0Croatia Bus is the largest bus company in Croatia and runs routes from Croatia out to the surrounding Balkan area. They have modern buses with Wifi and toilets and definitely give them the seal of approval.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Montenegro''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home and try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book and look up the top things to do in Kotor there. We like''Lonely Planet.''Still looking for more? We suggest traveling with''Lonely Planet Montenegro''to help you get around the Balkans!''Have you been to Montenegro?\xa0What things did you do in Kotor?''You May Also Like''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''The 10 Best Hiking Backpacks to Conquer Mountains in 2018''How Much Does a Europe Backpacking Trip Cost?''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''30 Things to do in Iceland • The Ultimate Iceland Bucket List''April 20, 2018''Things to do in Kotor, Montenegro''was last modified:''April 13th, 2018''by''Cameron''On the short bus ride from Skopje to Ohrid, I came to realize how much I love traveling Macedonia. It’s safe to say that the Balkans are my favorite area to travel through in Europe. \xa0With the friendly people, affordable prices, and''amazing coffee''we almost had to be ripped away from Serbia. \xa0After spending a month in Belgrade and Niš, we knew that it was time to move onwards to Macedonia to see the Church of St. John at Kaneo and more. We arrived in the capital of Skopje and had a unique time''delving into this compelling city''. All we heard from the locals in Skopje, was that we just had to go to Ohrid, Macedonia.''I’ve seen plenty of lakes in my day. \xa0Heck, I even grew up on one. \xa0So what was the big deal about this Lake Ohrid? Riding on the minibus from Skopje to Ohrid, \xa0I still couldn’t quite gather why everyone in the Balkans had a crush on lady Ohrid herself. But boy was I in for a surprise when we finally got to this Macedonian Gem in early April.''We love that we can get shots like these with''our GoPro''!''Skopje to Ohrid by Bus''After spending four months in the Balkans, I have come to realize that transportation is not as simple here as in the rest of Europe. Trains are generally less efficient, and bus travel can take a very long time. We arrived at the bus station in Skopje with little information on the travel times to Ohrid. Thankfully, minibusses from Skopje to Ohrid run quite frequently. The 170 km journey takes about 3 hours and costs a little over 450 MKD \xa0(€8).''We were dropped off in the center of Ohrid near the main pedestrian street. There are dozens of locals renting out their lakeside guesthouses for a very low price, and we had about eight different people offering us accommodation in a five-minute time span. It’s safe to say that arriving without a pre-booking is okay, and even the norm here. \xa0We stayed at a great Airbnb and paid €15 for the whole studio apartment! {''For $40 off an Airbnb rental''click here!''}''The first time I saw Lake Ohrid I was amazed at its beauty. The second time I saw it I was still amazed,\xa0 and the amazement never stopped for the remainder of our stay in Ohrid. I now get why the everyone made such a big deal about this place, I mean this lake was stunning.''Read More: {''Become a More Eco-Friendly Traveler in the Balkans''}''The water is crystal clear with a deep blue coloring, and every day it looked like glass. \xa0What was even better was the weather we had in April – blue skies and sunny every darn day! Visiting Ohrid at this time could not have been more perfect. Prices were low, the weather was amazing, and I think we were two of the ten tourists in town.''What to do in Ohrid?''The first thing we did was run straight to the water and breathe in the fresh air while being surrounded by complete bliss. After staring into the distance for about 5 hours, we decided we better get doing something active!''Ohrid is a large town with the typical large pedestrian street. Here on''Bulevar Makedonski Prosvetiteli'', there are the typical souvenir shops, ice cream stands, and many of the favorite franchise stores. The boulevard is clean and enjoyable to walk through. At the end of the boulevard, there is a large harbor with local fisherman offering to take passerby around the lake at an agreeable price for €5 in the off-season.''Ohrid is home to 365 churches; however, the Church of St. John at Kaneo was our favorite and most impressive. \xa0The Church is located on the edge of Ohrid, right past all the waterfront restaurants and bars. It is conveniently\xa0placed on the edge of a\xa0cliff and is the best view of Lake Ohrid and the surrounding mountains. In the summertime, there are spots along this cliff for diving, but I think we would have been considered crazy if we jumped in this freezing water in April.''Read More: {''The Best Backpacks to Travel Europe With''}''The Church of St. John at Kaneo''Church of Sveti Jovan at Kaneo, brought to you by our favorite travel accessory:''Our GoPro''!''After spending over a''year traveling Europe'', I tend to get “churched out” very fast. For those like me, I found it quite enjoyable to climb to Samuel’s fortress. I was previously unaware that Ohrid is one of the oldest known civilizations in Europe, and the lake is over 3 million years old! This fortress was built in the 10th century but is actually thought to be built over fortifications from 350 BCE. This makes Ohrid not only a\xa0UNESCO’s World Heritage Natural site, but a\xa0Cultural one as well.''Ohrid is home to a number of great hiking trails with astonishing views. Many of these trails are in\xa0Galichica National Park, which has an entrance just at the south end of Ohrid.''Read More: {''How Much Does it Cost to Backpack Europe?''}''Paragliding in Ohrid''Paragliding had always been high on my list, but my one stipulation\xa0was that I had to fly high somewhere incredibly beautiful. Ladies and gentleman, I am pleased to say that I finally found that place. Ohrid was the perfect place for us to sail into the sky and feel like the birds that are lucky enough to fly over Lake Ohrid.''Read More''{''Balkan Travel Tips To Know Before You Go''}''After we were suited up with our harness and the glider was completely spread out and unfolded, it was take off time. I was first and was completely unaware that the running start required for takeoff was so difficult. I was told to run and not to stop running until we are in the air. Easier said than done. My guide and I ran with all our might, but with a huge parachute battling the wind, and being completely strapped to someone else, I fell flat on my face.''The second time is a charm and after the first mishap\xa0we were up, up, and away!''Read More: {''Here is Why the Balkans are Our Favorite Region of Europe''}''We never travel without''our GoPro''!''Eating in Ohrid''The number of restaurants with a view in Ohrid are endless. Every night\xa0we had an incredibly tough time deciding where to go to grab a beer, coffee, or food. The good news is that Macedonia and Ohrid are incredibly affordable and we were able to eat''very well''for under €7. Here were a couple of our favorite spots to eat in Ohrid.''Dr. Falafel:''We ate at Dr. Falafel a couple times because they had the perfect cost to health food ratio! For less than €3 we got a plate of tasty hummus, vegetables, and falafel.''Potpes: We found''Potpes''to be incredibly relaxing and had an amazing patio overlooking the lake. Don’t miss the mussels here!''NOA:''Great seafood and even pizza at NOA. However, the best part was the view of Lake Ohrid!''Accommodation in Ohrid''The most popular form of accommodation in Ohrid would definitely be private guesthouses. Whether booking on''Airbnb'', Hotels Combined or find one of the many apartments from a local upon arrival – the options are endless.''We stayed at''this Airbnb'', which had a great location close to the city center, a fully equipped kitchen, and a comfortable bed!''Here are some other great options that we scoped out in Ohrid:''Aleksandar Villa''Luccia Apartments''Mountain House Robinson Sunset''We definitely weren’t leaving without doing a handstand!''Getting to and Leaving Ohrid''How to get from Skopje to Ohrid''Bus ticket from Skopje to Ohrid: Tickets can be purchased without notice at Skopje’s main bus station. The mini bus ride is comfortable and a beautiful ride and takes about 3.5 hours.''Drive from Skopje to Ohrid: If you have a car\xa03 hours by car then driving from Skopje to Ohrid is ideal. It’s 180-200km through mountainous roads.''Fly Skopje to Ohrid: There is a small airport in Ohrid connecting the city to Skopje and many other European cities.''Get Out of Ohrid''We were working our way down to Albania and found little to no information on how to travel from Ohrid to Tirana. Locals didn’t know, our Albanian host didn’t know, even the tourist information didn’t know the correct bus timetables. Like I mentioned before, travel in the Balkans isn’t exactly like it is in Western Europe.''We pieced what little information we could find off dozens of websites and made the journey to Tirana from Ohrid. Thankfully we were pretty successful! To get to Tirana from Ohrid by bus we first had to get to the main bus terminal in Struga. Struga is a neighboring town that takes about 15-20 minutes to get to by bus (40 MKD).''We walked to the Old Bazaar in Ohrid, crossed the street and went to the only bus stop we could see. We were short on time and there was no bus in sight, so we hopped into an old car that claimed to be a cab. The “cab” cost us 250 MKD (€4) and took less than 10 minutes to get to the Struga bus stop.''We found that there were two buses running to Tirana in April, at 9am and 12:30 pm, tickets were €8. Five hours later we were in Albania! Mission accomplished.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0The Balkans''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular cities\xa0in the Balkans:''Ljubljana'',''Belgrade'',''Split'',''Ohrid'', and''Kotor''.''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in the Balkans:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''I had never heard of Ohrid before traveling the Balkans, but the Church of St. John at Kaneo and everything else proved to be incredibly beautiful.''You May Also Like:''Ohrid, Macedonia: The Church of St. John at Kaneo and More''was last modified:''January 28th, 2017''by''Natasha''One of the greatest\xa0expenses in travel is accommodation, but employing good strategies to save on accommodation means more money in your pocket, meaning more travel. We live perpetually on the road, so we’re constantly searching for the next place to stay. Over time we’ve built a collection of tricks we use to save on accommodation. In this day and age, there are tons of travel resources at your disposal to find a great place to stay for cheap. You could consider us''backpackers'', but we rarely stay in the cheapest accommodation. Unfortunately, we continue to grow older so now we steer more and more away from the former days of shared rooms in hostels.''When we search for accommodation these days, it’s all about the bang for our buck.''How we save on accommodation''Get a Deal''We always like to play around with the length of our hotel stays. Sites like Airbnb\xa0(''click this link for $45!'') suggest that their owners offer discounts for longer stays, and we find this is often the case. While resorts often offer 4 nights for the price of 3, a great way to find deals like these is to cut out the middle man and book directly through the hotel’s website.''Location, Location, Location''This should always be a factor in selecting accommodation. A cheap hotel really isn’t so cheap if you have to take a taxi everytime you want to head to town. Staying in the poshest part of town also probably comes with a high price tag. You don’t necessarily need to be right in the action. We suggest to aim for good neighborhoods—search TripAdvisor forums or google for good neighborhoods in a city before visiting. Often you find comfortable neighborhoods where the locals live, but are readily accessible to the city center.''Free Breakfast? What about a kitchen? Check out those details.''Always read through the details about the facilities of\xa0your hotel. It often does not translate\xa0as direct savings when you book, but over the course of your stay it can become the cheaper option. Things like is there a fridge in your room to store snacks may not be the obvious thing to look for when booking a place, but can end up saving you money in the long run. Our favorite is to find places that offer at least a kitchenette so we can cook because another big expense of travel is food. We also love when there is a washer at our''Airbnb rentals''so we can wash all our dirty clothes for free!''Skip out on\xa0the weekend trips''Prices at popular destinations are at their peak on the weekend. Heading to multiple locations on a trip? If one destination appears to be more popular it’s best to avoid the weekend since rates will increase. Fridays and Saturdays are when hotels are at their peak occupancy, which translates to higher rates. We guide our itineraries to hit places where rates are lower on the weekend then head to the hotter destination when the work days come. You’ll come to love Mondays!''Travel in a Group''This is another''topic we’ve touched on before''. Why?\xa0Because it’s a great way to save. Traveling in a group means you can split the cost. Apartments become a great option and can house multiple people, which often come out cheaper than hostels and are far more comfortable.''Things are cheaper with three!''Speaking of Hostels''If you’re young, or just looking to save a buck then hostels are wonderful. They’re cheap, often centrally located, offer kitchens to cook your own food, and will be filled with like-minded travelers. Or don’t listen to me because you''shouldn’t stay in a hostel anyways.''Say “Hello!” to the shoulder season''The shoulder season and the off-season can be the''best times to travel to trendy destinations.''Tourists are at their lowest numbers meaning more space to yourself and prices can be drastically different. Hotels are likely to give you free upgrades, even small ones. We often book the cheapest room in smaller hotels only to be bumped up to their nicest room because we’re their only guests. So not only was it cheaper, but we got a much better room than we would by\xa0traveling in the high season.''Check out the neighbors''Another great option is staying in the town over. Smaller towns\xa0and cities often have cheaper accommodation and food options meaning you save twice. As long as you don’t mind a commute into the main city this is a great option. Just make sure to verify\xa0the price of transport before booking because you’ll lose if the cost of transportation outweighs the savings.''Free Cancellation:''When we know we’re traveling to a destination far in advance we do a quick search and find a good room with free cancellation. This ensures we have a room at a decent price while we can continue to periodically search for rate fluctuations and\xa0nab a better deal. We like to use booking.com for this since they offer free cancellation on a lot of properties, but''always read the details''before booking they can be tricky. We find that''Booking.com''is great for this.''What are you going to eat?''This is one that’s easy to miss but is something that’s become second nature to us. We always check the location of our accommodation and do a quick search of restaurants, cafes, and for budget-conscious markets.''TripAdvisor''is a great way to find places by location almost everywhere in the world. We also suggest reading some of the reviews from other guests of the hotel, often guests will mention food options in the area – or lack thereof. That budget resort isn’t so budget if you only have their expensive food options, and they know this.''Rewards Programs''It’s all about the points. Whether it be hotel points, credit card points, or just membership benefits taking advantage of free perks – collecting points is like saving money 101. The actual business of it can be complicated. So, we follow''The Points Guy''who runs a terrific blog, that will keep you up to date. \xa0We love sign up bonuses on credit cards and have many''travel credit cards''that offer us a slew of benefits. In addition to the rewards points you can get automatic enrollment in membership programs, international concierge services, free room upgrades, and exclusive offers.''Social Media''Follow, subscribe, or like your favorite search sites, hotels, and destination pages. They often promote sales and campaigns through their social media channels. This way\xa0you won’t miss out on the latest deal they’re offering. While you’re at it follow us on''Facebook''too.''Sign up for e-newsletter deals too''While you’re at it subscribe to their newsletters.''Delete your cookies/history''This is one that is not quite as intuitive as some of the other items on this list, but search engines save cookies on your site and will often raise prices based on your actions. Keep looking at the same hotel? The price may go up in order to make you feel the need to book, they’re crafty like that. Switch your browser to incognito mood, delete your most recent cookies, or try using a VPN such as “''Hola!''” to get a clean slate and ensure you’re getting the best price.''Want more''? Nomadic Matt gives great advice on''how to find a cheap place to stay!''Our Favorite Sites For booking Accommodation:''Save on accommodation with''Booking.com''Save on accommodation with''Hotels Combined''Save on accommodation with''Agoda''Bunk up with others and find a hostel with''HostelWorld''Check out what other travelers are saying on''TripAdvisor''Tricks On How To Save On Accommodation''was last modified:''August 9th, 2017''by''Cameron''So many things to do in Skopje, so little time. The capital city of Macedonia is, without a doubt, one of the most interesting cities I’ve been in. Skopje is very well connected with other Balkan cities like Pristina, Tirana, Thessaloniki, and Sofia and is quickly becoming a hot destination on the Balkan travel route.\xa0Unfortunately, we were only able to spend one full day in the city. Naturally, we wanted to see and do everything in that day so here are the best things to do in Skopje!''Things to do in Skopje, Even For Just a Day!''We woke up bright and early in our quiet''neighborhood apartment in Skopje'', eager for what the day would bring and to travel Macedonia. \xa0Usually, when we only have one day to explore a new place, we spend hours trying to map out the day to see the optimal sites.''Starting the day at Vodno Mountain''The moment you step outside in Skopje and look up you will see a massive cross towering over the city center. The Millenium Cross is a 66-meter high cross that was built in 2002 and is actually the fourth tallest in the world. \xa0At night it dazzles and shines bright, but during the day you can see it up close. It is located at the top of Vodno Mountain, overlooking Skopje’s city center. You can reach the cross by either a very strenuous hike, or by taking a bus to the middle of the mountain and then continue by cable car.''Taking the cable car was our original plan, but when we arrived the cable car was not working. There was no sign, the workers just said: “not today.” A local exclaimed that this is how things go in Skopje, sometimes things work and sometimes they don’t without notice. This did not ruin our plans to get a beautiful view of Skopje though! We decided to hike through the wonderfully quaint park for a great viewpoint over the city.''The most common religion in Macedonia is Orthodox Christian, and there are plenty of churches to prove it. We gallivanted in and out of these unique churches throughout the day. Each one was so different\xa0and featured amazingly preserved frescos.''Overlooking Skopje''On to Matka Canyon''About a 30-minute drive out of the city center lies Matka Canyon. If you can only do one thing in Skopje, go explore this beautiful gorge. I never knew that such beauty could lie so close to a major city, but thanks to our Skopje tour we were able to spend a significant amount of our day here. Matka is a very popular destination for locals to swim, kayak, rock-climb, and enjoy the nature when the weather is nice.''Read More: {''How Much Does it Cost to Backpack Europe?''}''Walking along past the major dam we were immediately enticed by how clear the water in the Matka Lake was, it was beautifully pristine. \xa0We were told that there were 10 caves at Matka Canyon, but the most impressive is Vrelo Cave. So, we hopped on a local boat and our driver took us to Vrelo Cave. \xa0The exact depths of this cave are unknown, but many claim that Vrelo is one of the deepest underwater caves in the world.''Travel to Macedonia to Climb the St. Nikola Shishevski Monastery''Across the lake from the massive cave restaurant and hotel (you can’t miss it) is a large green area. Ask one of the local boats to take you across the lake, and there lies the beginning of a steep, but quick hike up to the St. Nikola Shishevski Monastery. It’s one of the top things to do in Skopje. The hike takes about 20 minutes and is a steep incline, but you will be well rewarded with “spiritual heaven” and stunning views of Matka Lake. \xa0We learned that there is no historical data for St. Nikola Shishevski Monastery, but it has nevertheless become a popular hangout for local Macedonians. Now for the easy part of the climb, hiking down!''Our first taste of traditional Macedonian food''After all of the hiking and exploring, we had managed to work up quite the appetite. We hit the streets in Skopje’s old cafe district. After spending more than a''month in Serbia''we weren’t sure what to expect for a late lunch. Serbian cuisine is generally very meaty, so we were pleasantly surprised when the waiter brought out plenty of cooked vegetables and fresh dips. The vegetarian lunch was at a typical Macedonian kafana in the bohemian quarter of Skopje, and was delicious. We were served course after course, with no shortage of delicious Macedonian red wine. If you need another reason to travel to Macedonia, it should be for the food.''Read More''{''Balkan Travel Tips To Know Before You Go''}''On to the Old Bazaar''Even though it was nearing 17:00, the day was far from over. The April sun was still shining and we had plenty left to see. We walked up to the old Kale Fortress, a symbolic site located in the old town. Scaling the old walls doesn’t take too long, but is worth the short and easy climb up to overlook the city. Kale Fortress is located on the eastern bank of the Vardar River and across the street lies the entrance to the old bazaar. After a couple of trips to Turkey, we have come to absolutely love bazaars, and the bazaar in Skopje was no different. \xa0Walking through this old bazaar feels like walking back through time; here you can find old hammams, precious silks, spices, and plenty of jewelry. \xa0The bazaar is quite small and left uncovered, but the ambiance truly made us feel like we weren’t\xa0even in Macedonia or 2016 anymore!''Inside the Old Bazaar is some of\xa0Skopje’s liveliest nightlife. Plenty of bars, restaurants and even some clubs line the small cobbled streets. We stopped at one cafe for a traditional Turkish coffee before heading to a local bakery to have the recommended “parachute” dessert.''Read More: {''Here is Why the Balkans are Our Favorite Region of Europe''}''A dessert called “Parachute”''Finishing off at Skopje 2014''I mentioned in the beginning of this post that Skopje is one of the most interesting cities I’ve ever traveled to. That is largely in part due to Skopje 2014, a government-financed project that has led to the construction of new statues, museums, and government buildings. One of the goals was to make Skopje more visually appealing; however, as an outsider walking through the city felt like a mixture of Epcot and Las Vegas. There are new and sometimes even bizarre statues everywhere, and they are one after the other. I felt like Oprah came through and gave everyone their own personal statue.''We loved seeing this area with a local and being able to ask questions about the new Skopje that we wouldn’t be able to normally. It seemed that the general consensus was that Macedonians are somewhat angry and confused at their government for constructed such a strange and costly city. If you don’t want to miss these new buildings and statues, don’t worry – there is no way you can miss the 48 ft tall “Warrior on a Horse” in the town center.''Final Thoughts''The sun had set, and our fun-filled day in the capital''was coming to an end. We made the most out of our one day in Skopje, and we truly felt that we saw some of the heart and soul of this modern city.''Read More:''{''How You Can Save on Accommodation''}''Plan Your Trip to\xa0The Balkans''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular cities\xa0in the Balkans:''Ljubljana'',''Belgrade'',''Split'',''Ohrid'', and''Kotor''.''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in the Balkans:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''Thank you to Time for Macedonia for showing us around Skopje. As always, all opinions and thoughts are our own.''If you have any questions about the company mentioned on this page, please''reach out to us''and we will happily answer them.''Read Next:''Things To Do in Skopje in Just One Day''was last modified:''March 27th, 2017''by''Natasha''Exploring The Serbian Countryside With A.C.E. Adventure''Nature lovers rejoice with regions such as the Serbian countryside, a part of the beautiful Balkans that remains relatively untouched. We love traveling to new areas that are difficult to reach and remain unknown to those besides the local tourists. We recently explored the countryside surrounding Niš, Serbia with''A.C.E. Adventure''and found beautiful landscapes filled with delicious food, wine, and adventure.''Cycling with A.C.E. Adventure''We met the owner and founder of''A.C.E. Adventure'',\xa0Miša,\xa0in''Niš''. Niš would act as our base for the next couple days while we\xa0set out\xa0to experience\xa0the Serbian countryside. A.C.E. Adventures is a tour company that specializes in cycling and trekking tours throughout the Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, and Bosnia & Herzegovina. So, who better than them to show us around than true locals. Even though it was the off-season they set out to give us two great days of cycling and hiking in the area.''So, what was\xa0our day like?''Cycling, cycling, food, and more cycling. Cycling is something that A.C.E. Adventures specializes in. We started the day off with a morning coffee before heading to get our bikes and ride\xa0right out of town. It was late March so we naturally had some rain early on, but pressed on to eventually earn a beautiful sunny day.\xa0Our first stop on the 47 km route was the monument to Battle of Čegar, a memorial to the first''Serbian uprising''against the Ottoman Empire in 1809. The memorial stands on the battlefield of what led to the gruesome and now infamous''Skull Tower''.''The next leg of our ride brought us to one of the oldest churches in the region that sat atop a hill overlooking the village of Gornji Matejevac. The church dating back to the 12th century was completely undiscovered except for the occasional local tourist looking for something new in the area. This site was one we were afforded the ability to visit because of our tour. \xa0We come to find\xa0through our travels that tours often help you reach destinations that are relatively off the map,\xa0as a foreigner we would have never discovered these back paths with our bikes.''Overlooking the village of Gornji Matejevac''The\xa0next hour was spent winding through the villages of the Serbian countryside. We passed through many quaint towns\xa0where an abundance of the homes are still built with mud, a very charming but practical feature. Cycling through the rolling hills was both relaxing and exhilarating. However, climbing some of the hills with a bicycle was no easy feat. Nevertheless, cycling through these rural areas made for a culturally interesting and exciting day.''We arrived in the village of Malča to have lunch at a\xa0regional winery.\xa0The vineyard,''Podrum Malča'', specializes in the history of wine production in the region and allows for visitors to sample wines produced in four distinct ways. After a tour of the vineyard presenting the various ways they can produce red, rose, and white wine we sat down to a meal in their adjoining restaurant. It was the perfect Serbian meal to fuel our active day. Shopska salad, stuffed peppers,\xa0grilled meats, and of course wine was all laid on the table for us to feast.''Podrum Malca lets you “travel through wine time.”''After a little digestion it was time to continue our journey under sunny skies on towards our last stop. \xa0We may have mounted our bikes a little happier than before!\xa0 Our last stop for the day was in the thermal town of Niska Banja, now a part of Niš, for an afternoon frappe. The town sat at the bottom of a small ridge which the local paragliding club would take off from. With the warm spring weather we had some great frappes, a popular summer drink in all the Balkans, as well as a favorite of ours that we’ve''shared before''.''We biked a\xa0total of 47km and climbed an ascent of 1000m, a great day of cycling. After spending a month not being very''active in Belgrade'', this suited us very well. However, A.C.E. Adventures caters to all levels of riders with some tours a bit easier and others that extend for much longer distances and greater elevation changes.''Hiking The Suva Planina''After a great nights sleep we set out for a second day of adventure in the beautiful Serbian Countryside and the rich Suva Planina mountain range (english translation to “dry mountain”). Although the major cities in Serbia are relatively flat it’s pretty much impossible to go anywhere in the Balkans and not run into mountains. Niš was no exception\xa0and we had easy access from the city to a great hike up into\xa0the Dry Mountains.''It was a short drive out of the city\xa0to the\xa0villages we cycled through the day before. Here we ventured off and onto more adventurous roads before parking along the roadside and making our way out onto trails maintained and marked by the dedicated local hiking enthusiasts.''The Suva Planina mountain is abundant in a''wide range of flora and fauna''and as spring broke in the mountains we were greeted with fresh bloomed flowers. The cool spring weather kept us comfortable while we hiked up to the mountain ridge. We found ourselves wishing we had more time as the trail along the ridge line stretched to a number of peaks in the area and would make for more great multiway hikes.''After a short but steep climb up to the peak of Mosor Mountain from the ridge we celebrated with a drink of the famous Balkan spirit,\xa0Rakija.''Our hosts and guides, Miša and Zoran.''After our photo-op we made our way down from the mountain into the quaint landscapes below. The Serbian countryside is\xa0filled with rolling hills, babbling brooks, cottages, and signature piles of hay. It was a spectacular day and we were not disappointed by any means when it came to the beauty of the Serbia.''How can anyone complain about a region as beautiful as this?''Naturally after a short climb up the mountain we had worked up a serious appetite. Thankfully there was a traditional Kafana\xa0in sight. Kafana’s serve up seriously good Balkan food and it’s where Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes belly up to the bar and eat. Trust us, just like the Balkans you will fall in love with the Kafana experience. After a filling meal it was time for us to say goodbye and prepare to move on to Skopje, our next stop on our Balkan tour.\xa0Our time spent with A.C.E Adventure and the surrounding areas of Niš were truly a highpoint on our tour of the Serbia and we can not wait to explore more of this beautiful region.''A little more about the company.''A.C.E. Adventure offers tours throughout the Balkans with skilled guides that carefully plan all logistics. You can always tell when people have a passion for what they do, and it shows in their work. We really felt the passion with these guys and had a memorable experience. With various tours like trekking, gourmand, and cycling ranging from 2-day self guided tours to 15 days around the Balkan countries, all guests will be sure to feel right at home.''Plan Your Trip the the Balkans''Accommodation in Balkans:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular cities\xa0in the Balkans:''Ljubljana'',''Belgrade'',''Split'',''Ohrid'', and''Kotor''.''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in the Balkans:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''Serbian Countryside: Our Exploration of the Balkans''was last modified:''January 28th, 2017''by''Cameron''Belgrade is one of the most interesting capitals in Europe. The former capital of Yugoslavia may not be filled with beautiful architecture, but there are plenty of things to do in Belgrade for all to enjoy.''The Balkan city has much more than first meets the eye. Once you delve deeper you’ll find a thriving arts community, awesome cafes, history, and an intense nightlife scene. It’s a gritty city that is rewarding to explore.''To top it off it is one Europe’s most affordable cities.''There are plenty of affordable activities to keep yourself entertained. We spent a month in the city and never ran out of things to do for crazy low prices. How low? Well, our month two bedroom apartment in one of Belgrade’s hippest neighborhoods cost us a whopping $550. Tickets to the ballet set us back $3 a piece, and we had more than our fair share of cheap sushi. Thanks to affordable flight connections within Europe it makes a weekend in Belgrade less expensive than just one day in common tourist staples like Paris or London.''Whether you have one day or one month to spend in Belgrade it’s unlikely you will leave the Serbian capital disappointed. Here are some of our favorite things to do in Belgrade.''Things to do in Belgrade''Join a free walking tour''The first thing you should do after arriving in Belgrade is join a Belgrade free walking tour! We found''Belgrade Walking Tours,''and decided to venture around the city with them.\xa0The Free Downtown Belgrade tour is offered at 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. every day.\xa0The tour will give you a crash course on the city of Belgrade, and Serbia itself for that matter.''Almost all capital cities in Europe offer a free walking tour and we love taking them to stay on''budget in Europe''! It helps us to get acquainted with the city, learn some history without Google, and we are usually able to make some friends. Although these tours are free it’s always appropriate to tip your guide if you are satisfied.''Making friends on Belgrade’s Underground Tour''Cafe hope on Skadarlija Street''After all that walking from the Belgrade free walking tour\xa0around Belgrade you’ll want to regroup and have a drink. Head to one of the''cafes on Skadarlija''street for an authentic experience.''Skadarlija street is well-known as the main bohemian quarter and popular for cafes, restaurants, and nightlife. The cobbled street\xa0is very popular with young people and should not be missed when visiting Belgrade.''Check out\xa0Kalemegdan park and the Belgrade Fortress''Near Skadarlija Street is Kalemegdan park and the Belgrade Fortress. You may have walked through this area if you went on a walking tour, but it’s definitely worth more exploring!''Kalemegdan features countless statues, great lookouts, old men playing chess, and many street vendors where you can find Serbian souvenirs. On a nice sunny day, a walk through this park and across the Belgrade fortress is perfect. At the entrance of the fortress, you can even have lunch at''Kalemegdanska Teresa''overlooking New Belgrade.''Party the night away''Are you a partier? Many of Belgrade’s best nightclubs are located in Savamala along the Sava river. Great for a Friday or Saturday night out, especially in the summertime.''Savamala isn’t just for partying. It’s also an urban neighborhood of Belgrade with plenty of history and is right along the Sava river. \xa0You can’t miss the street art along many of the buildings there, and it is truly a treat to the eye.''Catch a show at the Belgrade National Theatre''One of the best things to do in Belgrade is to see a show or ballet at the Belgrade National Theatre.\xa0The Theatre is located in the Republic Square and features a performance every night. Tickets to the theater are extremely affordable at 300 dinars per seat ($3). So if ballet, opera, or drama is your passion, a night at the Belgrade National Theatre is a real treat. You can book your tickets''online here.''Admire the Church of St. Sava''The Church of St. Sava is newly constructed and has quickly become an iconic piece of the Belgrade skyline. The church is the largest in''the Balkans''and ranks among the largest in the world, and the unfinished interior is humbling in scale. \xa0Besides being absolutely massive, it’s a beautiful piece of architecture that deserves admiration. It’s also where the founder of the Serbian Orthodox Church, St. Sava, is laid to rest.''Just around the corner from the Church of St. Sava is\xa0Vracar, one of the hippest neighborhoods in Belgrade. There are countless cafes to grab your morning coffee at in the area, here are a''few of our favorites''.''Shop at Kalenic Green Market''Kalenic market is Belgrade’s largest market and is filled with tons of fresh fruits, vegetables, meats, pickles, honey, meat, eggs, dairy, and even seafood. Enjoy perusing the local wares, and don’t be afraid when a local offers you to sample their product.''No trip is complete to Serbia without having the local clotted cream, Kajmac.\xa0Pair this cheese with some hot fresh bread as a present to your tongue.\xa0If the smell of fresh baked bread or vegetables doesn’t draw you in, the crowd surely will. \xa0\xa0You won’t find the Serbs at the supermarkets, but instead, they will be here at Kalenic Pijaca every morning. Even if you won’t be cooking later, a walk through this market is certainly recommended to get a feel for the city.''Get to the Tesla Museum''Nikola Tesla''was a Serbian-American inventor born in modern day Croatia. Some of his life work, achievements, and even his remains are located at the Tesla museum in Belgrade. A visit to the museum takes about an hour and cost 500 dinars ($5).''Learn a bit about history''There are a number of buildings that are still standing from the NATO bombings of Belgrade in 1999. One of the most visible\xa0sites is the Former\xa0Yugoslav Ministry of Defence located on both sides of\xa0Kneza Milosa street. On both sides of this street stands two very large complexes with extreme damage from 1999.''This is Belgrade’s most famous ruin and protected site. We knew very little of the NATO bombings upon arrival in Belgrade. When we first arrived we walked past this building at night and thought “Holy crap, look at that building!” However, after a local communist tour, we were able to grasp some of the cities dark past.''If you’re interested in more history from here you can also\xa0hop on bus 41 and go to the\xa0Museum of Yugoslav History for a more detailed look into…well, Yugoslav history. This is also the site of beloved Joseph Tito’s grave.''Cross the bridge to Zemun''It’s time to cross the bridge to New Belgrade and spend the day in beautiful Zemun. Zemun has a quintessential location right along the Danube river and is arguably one of the prettiest neighborhoods in Belgrade. Plan to come here on a sunny day and enjoy lunch\xa0in one of the many cafes along the river. The streets here are all cobblestoned and quaint, just walking them will put you in a timeless mood. The gem of Zemun is\xa0Gardoš, where the\xa0Gardoš Tower is located.\xa0There is no need to explain where this tower is, as you can’t miss it if you look up in Zemun. Climbing up the tower will cost all of $2, and it is surely worth the view overlooking the city.''Sample Serbian Cuisine''Have you tried the local''Serbian cuisine''? It’s a fabulous mixture of meat, meat, and more meat. No, just kidding''it’s not all meat,''but ćevapi and pljeskavica\xa0are very popular. For a little more greens in your diet order a shopska salad – a mixture of tomatoes, cucumbers, and white brine cheese.''Our General Thoughts on Belgrade''We spent a month in Belgrade at this wonderful''AirBnB in Vracar''(Click''here''for €2- off). Everyone – and I mean everyone wondered why the hell we spent an entire month here. Truly, I felt like this was the perfect city to get to know better and delve into\xa0Yugoslavia’s confusing past. Besides the history, there was plenty to do, see, drink, and eat.''Inside the National Bank of Serbia''Where to Eat in Belgrade?''We certainly didn’t hold back in Belgrade. The capital has a restaurant on every corner and there is something to fit every kind of budget here. Here are some of our favorites.''Burrito Madre:''Burrito lovers rejoice for''Burrito Madre'', where you can get a Chipotle quality burrito for $3.''Le Bon Appetit:''Extremely affordable takeaway option. Located on''Kralja Milutina''and serves up great salads.''Restaoran Lovac:''Excellent Serbian Barbeque here in a fine dining atmosphere. Here you can find a massive meat serving for 2 people for less than 1100 dinars.''Manufaktura:''For traditional Serbian cuisine,''try Manufaktura''. Located near the Serbian National Bank.''Go Sushi'': Have I mentioned that''we love sushi?''Go sushi was the''perfect place''to settle our sushi cravings. Highly recommend.''Where to Stay in Belgrade?''If an AirBnB rental isn’t in the cards, there are countless hotels and hostels to lay your head down.''For a fancier stay in Serbia’s capital city try the''Courtyard Marriot,''located right next door to the national theater.''We also met many people who were staying at''Hostel Bongo''for a more affordable option.''Read more about''how you can save on accommodation.''General info if for visiting Belgrade''Currency: Serbian Dinar (100 Dinars = $.92)''The main airport in Belgrade is the Nikola Tesla Airport (BEG).''Transport: Cabs are cheap here, and the bus and tram system are good.''*Hint*''No one pays for public transport in Belgrade, not even in the locals. However, most of the old town can be explored by foot.''Belgrade was the former capital of Yugoslavia and is the largest city of all the Southern Slavic countries.''Rakija is a fruit brandy and is very popular in all of Serbia, and the Balkans for that matter.''Meeting Point for the Belgrade Free Tour is at the\xa0Republic Square, look for a guide with a big yellow sign behind the man on a horse.''Check out our favorite''backpacks for backpacking Europe.''Smoking inside is still legal in Serbia – and yes, it sucks for nonsmokers.''Get out of Belgrade and take a 4-hour train ride to''Niš'', or a 1-hour train ride to''Novi Sad''.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Belgrade''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''Read Next:''Best Coffee Shops in Belgrade''15 Balkan Travel Tips You Should Know Before You Go''How Much Does it Cost to Travel the World?''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''Where to Go in Croatia on Your Vacation''20 of the Most Beautiful Cities and Towns in Europe''May 1, 2018''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''April 12, 2018''The Ultimate Europe Packing List • Essentials for Traveling to Europe''April 9, 2018''11 Amazing Things to Do in Belgrade, Serbia''was last modified:''February 28th, 2018''by''Natasha''It’s officially six-months of our blog being live, and us on the road. So, in celebration we’ve compiled a list of our best GoPro\xa0travel photos. We just concluded a month of''hanging out in Belgrade''and have arrived in a new country for us both, Macedonia. 2016 has even more in store for us, so be sure to check back.''We’ll be bouncing around the Mediterranean''as the weather makes a turn for the best, before we tackle the Dark Continent.''We love taking travel photos with our GoPro.''We have no shame in admitting our GoPro is probably one of''our favorite travel accessories.''It’s quickly fallen into a must have for us. We take it everywhere with us. Going out to dinner? Check. Taking a short hike? Check. How about cliff diving? Check. The nifty little camera is nondescript, durable, waterproof, and its wide angle lens makes for some awesome travel shots. Oh and this thing takes probably the only cool selfie, that was until Snapchat became a thing.''So, what did we do in six months of travel?''We scaled\xa0the''Tatra Mountains''.''Hiking in the Tatra Mountains''Got\xa0a tan on the''beaches of Cyprus.''We had a blast at a water park''in the Mediterranean''.''This shot won us €200. Thanks to WaterWorld’s selfie contest''We straddled two continents at once, as we cruised down the Bosphorus.''We got a history lesson at the''Library of Celsus''.''We walked''through the valleys of Cappadocia''.''Pigeon Valley''Explored some of the earliest\xa0churches in the world.''We missed a\xa0show by at''least a millennia in Hierapolis''.''Took\xa0a bath in the thermal pools of Pamukkale.''We kept it classy in Bodrum, Turkey.''We got lost in some beautiful alleys.''We climbed a mountain to find a''remote monastery in Subiaco, Italy''.''We found God at the home of St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of Italy.''Even the rain wouldn’t stop us from having fun.''We caught a view along the famous''Cinque Terre trail''.''On the Cinque Terre trail''And said goodbye to a travel partner in Perugia.''We baked''bread with the Berbers\xa0in Morocco''.''And drank lots, and lots, of mint tea.''We climbed the dunes of the Sahara and made some friends.''Friends that we later caught a ride with.''We dined with the''fisherman\xa0in Essaouira, Morocco''.''Found our quiet spot in the''madness of Marrakesh''.''We wandered through a''sea of blue in Chefchaouen, Morocco''.''We made a cash''withdrawal at the National Bank of Serbia.''We paid our respects to Saint Sava in Belgrade.''When tickets to the ballet are $4 we go not once, but four times.''There you have it.\xa0Just throw five coffees in between each one of those photos, and it’s more or less the journey of The World Pursuit during our first six months on the road. New to the site and want to learn more about us?''Start here''. Hope you enjoyed!''[''Read More'':''Our Favorite GoPro Travel Accessories'']''What did we use to get these photos?''GoPro Hero4'':''We felt the GoPro Hero4 silver was the way to go. Read on''here.''GoPro Smart Remote'':''The remote is vital when grabbing shots with a GoPro arm, and it’s just as durable as the GoPro.''Smapole S1'':''The pole feels rock solid, the locks are easy to use, and it’s affordable.''About the Author''Cameron''Facebook''Cameron travels around the world and runs the travel blog "The World Pursuit" with his partner Natasha. He has a passion for exploring the world, adventure sports, and visual storytelling. You can find him listening to music, reading a good book, and drinking lots of coffee.''Have any questions for us? Drop a comment down below.''You May Also Like:''This Couple’s Travel Story Told Through A GoPro''was last modified:''November 4th, 2016''by''Cameron''It seems that this past year has been the year of terror in our world. Forget about global warming sending us into an apocalypse, there are crazy people on this planet that just want to beat mother nature to it. Next week will be the six-month mark since we left home for an indefinite life on the road. Besides spending six weeks in Morocco, we have traveled through Europe the entire time.''The first wave of terror hit us the night we landed in Istanbul on November 13, the night of the Paris attacks. I won’t deny that we were rocked. I distinctly remember the eerie feeling between our group as we walked down the crowded and infamous Istiklal street at night.''Our parents were scared for us, we were nervous in crowded places, and you could feel the tension from the locals as just simple “bangs” from wheelbarrows made everyone jump. Despite this, we caught up with old Turkish friends, straddled two continents at once, and relived old memories in one of our favorite big cities. After 10 days, we left Istanbul and continued to travel Turkey for another four weeks. If I had given into terror and fear right then I would have never realized that Turkey is one of my most''favorite countries in the world.''Then on January 12th, 2016 it happened again. We were waiting for our flight from Rome to Marrakech and heard of the Istanbul bombing that killed 13 people. We were shaken once again, but it was not going to stop us from getting on that flight to Morocco a predominately\xa0Muslim country.''We traveled this Northern Africa country for six more weeks, and never once did I feel endangered. Now, today brings yet another act of terror. I could go on and list all of the awful and atrocious attacks that happened this year, but that’s what you have the media for. The point is I am not going to let fear affect my dream to travel the world.''I am from gun\xa0nation''I am from the U.S., and as much as I love certain aspects of my country, there is no denying that we have a serious gun problem. There were''372 mass shootings in America''in 2015. So why is everyone telling me that I will be safer on my home turf?''According to the CDC'', 25-34 year olds are more likely to die from a homicide than heart disease. Now, that’s scarier than terrorism. \xa0Just a few weeks ago a crazy Uber driver went on a killing spree, and''shot six people in a city''that is 45 minutes from my hometown.''I have a higher chance of being sexually assaulted''Statistically speaking,''I have quite a high chance of being raped or sexually assaulted in my life. This has been a worldwide issue for decades, but the fear of this does not keep women from leaving their bedroom every morning and going about their everyday lives. I have a''1 in 9,300,000''chance of dying in a terrorist attack. So why should I let the fear of terrorism keep me from traveling any more than the fear of being a woman?''New friends this year in Sorrento''There is too much good in the world''On a more lighthearted note, there is just''too''much kindness on this planet to let those few bad apples ruin my experiences. No matter what preconceived notions\xa0I have about a country when I arrive, I leave them at the door. Are all Muslim\xa0countries dangerous?''No.''Is South America scary for solo female travelers?''Not that I experienced.''Throughout my travels, I would say that 99% of the locals I meet are friendly, engaging, and invite me into their homes with open arms.''Playing a marble game in Morocco''I will not give into terrorists''The main reason I will keep on traveling is because I will not give into terrorism. That is exactly what they want – for people to give into their fear tactics. They want us to overreact, to blame the refugees, and to fear\xa0boarding airplanes. When I woke up and heard the news of the Brussels attack today, I jumped on social media and saw that many people were reconsidering their travel plans this year. In the wake of yet another tragedy, I urge everyone not to give into fear and cancel their long deserved vacations.''This doesn’t mean I’m going to go hop on the next flight to Syria, or travel to any notably dangerous country. \xa0For anyone that knows me, they know I am not one to throw myself into any kind of danger.\xa0I will continue\xa0to take control over what I actually can control. I will look twice while crossing a busy street, stay sober while traveling alone, and avoid sketchy areas after dark.''Why Terrorism Will Not Stop Me From Traveling''was last modified:''November 4th, 2016''by''Natasha''It’s no secret that we love discovering new coffee shops in the cities that we explore. It’s safe to say that millennials around the globe are outgrowing the typical Starbucks chain coffee retailers and searching far and wide for the hippest cafes. The Serbian capital Beograd, (internationally known as Belgrade) has been quick to jump on the cafe bandwagon. Every corner in every neighborhood houses a hip, boutique, or industrial coffee shop.''So we took to the city and sought out to discover the best coffee shops in Belgrade. From Coffee Dream to\xa0Coffee Cake Bakery, this list has it all!''We may, or may not, have been hopped up on caffeine the whole time. Hey,''the scientists say that’s okay''!''The Best Coffee Shops in Belgrade''Coffee Dream Beograd''Coffeedream is the most “starbucksy” out of all the cafes listed, except their coffee is so much better! They have locations all over the city and have a range of products. You can get anything from a plain cappuccino to a chocolate cookie crumble latte here. I saw that they even have a “Sushidream” somewhere in Belgrade, I think I will have to hunt that down.''Find them on TripAdvisor!''Cool Coffee Bar''We were frequent visitors of Cool Coffee Bar for many reasons. One being that it was steps away from our''picturesque AirBnB'', two because they had amazing WiFi, and three because the lattes were so darn foamy! Cool Coffee Bar is a pretty happening place night and day, so make sure to stop by or check them out on''Facebook''!''Kafeterija Dorcol''You know when you walk by a coffeehouse and immediately think, “man, I bet they can whip up a good cappuccino?” Well, that’s exactly what I thought as we walked past this jam-packed Beograd cafe. Good thing I listened to our gut because they did whip up a damn good latte. Here they''are on TripAdvisor!''ZRNO Kafeterija''For a more intimate Beograd cafe experience, head to ZRNO Kafeterija. This cafe is quite small, but it plays a great collection of melodies to make you feel relaxed and at home. \xa0Located in Vracar, find them on''TripAdvisor!''Coffee Cake Bakery''This charming cafe specializes in two things: coffee and cake. They have a great outdoor seating area for those sunny summer days; but also an indoor area with heaters for the chilly ones. Check them out on''Facebook!''Lokal''Located just steps away from the Tesla museum on Alekse Nenadovica street''is Lokal cafe''. It’s very small and easy to miss but it’s certainly worth stopping in for their specialty iced teas. We liked the warm and welcoming atmosphere that appeals to passer byes on the street.''Villa Maska''Beograd Cafe by day and popular club by night. Villa Maska can be described as a three story funky eclectic array of old movie posters and jazz memorabilia. Located steps away from the Church of Saint Sava, you can’t miss the entrance – just look for this car out front! They are rated highly''on TripAdvisor''.''Cameleon\xa0Caffe''For those nice sunny days in Old Belgrade, you can’t miss\xa0Cameleon Caffe. It’s situated right next to Manjez Park and has bright chairs to bring all the boys to the yard. There are many specialty coffees and fancy drinks. Located at Njegoseva 11.''Salon De The''Not a coffee drinker? No problem! Walking into this cute tea shop will make you feel like Alice in Wonderland. Salon De The is decorated in pink from head to toe and specializes in hundreds of different teas. Bonus for all the non-smokers out there because this place is cigarette free! \xa0Check Salon De The out on''TripAdvisor!''Red Bar''Located in the heart of Skadarlija street is Red Bar. The two-story cafe/bar boasts views like the one above. Skadarlija street is in Old Town Belgrade and is considered by locals and tourists alike to be the bohemian quarter. \xa0Day or night, walking down this street and admiring the many cafes makes for a charming stroll. Check Red Bar out on''TripAdvisor''.''Dokolica Bistro Vracar''Dokolica Bistro Vracar is a cafe and perfect lunch spot. We weren’t planning on even having coffee, but couldn’t resist when we walked past this alluring restaurant. These aren’t your typical Dunkin Donuts iced coffees above, just look at that gooey chocolate!''Rated here on TripAdvisor!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0The Balkans''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Balkans:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',\xa0or to feel more at home try Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''This list has our best coffee shops in Belgrade. Have you been? What was your favorite?''You May Also Like:''Best Coffee Shops in Belgrade: From Coffee Dream Beograd & Beyond''was last modified:''July 28th, 2017''by''Natasha''Income tax returns are due to the American government on April 18th, for the Aussies and Brits this date is October 31st. All over the world tax day is coming up fast! Hopefully, this means a little extra cash in your pocket from last years hard earned work.''If you’ve been staring at that desktop photo of Fiji for longer than you can remember then now is the time to take that long deserved trip. Whether it be a long or short vacation go grab your lover, bestie, or family and hop on a plane. \xa0Here are five international trips to take with your tax refund.''Trips to Take with Your Tax Refund''Iceland''Hiking in Iceland is free and fun!''For all my East Coast Americans out there, did you know you can get''round trip flights for less than $500''to Reykjavik? That means you can go to one of the most beautiful countries in the world for less than your monthly Starbucks bill.''Now it’s pretty universally known that Iceland is an expensive country to travel through, and besides the airfare, you will still have to eat and sleep. Let’s assume you get $2000 back this year from your taxes, therefore, you have $1500 to play around with in Iceland. That is more than enough to get by in this country for a two-week trip.''You should rent a Campervan.\xa0 If you want to travel with a''Happy Campers''van like we did (and you should!)\xa0 We are able to provide our readers a 5% discount off their Happy Camper rentals. In order to do this, you must''book through this link''and retrieve your one-time''discount code here''using the key “''TWP''”''Turkey''Sunset over Cappadocia''Turkey is one of my favorite countries in the world. Istanbul is one of the only cities that is divided between two continents. So go ahead and make your co-workers jealous and tell them you went to Europe''and Asia''on your vacation, it’s the truth! There is not a lot that takes my breath away, but watching the sunrise over Cappadocia was one of the most astonishing sights I have ever laid my eyes on.''Besides the different landscapes, the Turkish are warm, friendly people and the food is mouthwatering. From the''travertines in Pamukkale''to ancient history in Ephesus, Turkey has a lot going for it. \xa0Get 25% off a Full tour of Turley with G Adventures''here''.''Galapagos Islands''Banos, Ecuador''Occasionally I like to get on Expedia and browse the''bundle deal offers.''This past month I was shocked to find a roundtrip flight from JFK to the Galapagos with 7 hotel nights included for less than $1500! I mean I know there are many things to do with a $1500 tax return, but visiting the Galapagos seems like the best option out there.''In case you didn’t know, these islands\xa0are home to some of the highest levels of endemism than anywhere else on earth! They are located 906\xa0km off the coast of Ecuador, which by itself is also a\xa0great destination. If your return this year wasn’t quite in the $1500 price range, then try traveling to mainland Ecuador itself,''I was able to explore the country for less than $400.''Bali''Monkey at Uluwatu Temple''Bali may not be that accessible to North American travelers, but for those in the Eastern Hemisphere, this Indonesian island has''many budget flights''flying to it. \xa0Bali has long been a hot travel destination and has even been coined “The island of the Gods.”''From the Nasi Goreng and avocado smoothies to the rolling hills, mountains, rice paddies, sandy beaches, and even to the white water rafting and volcano hiking for adrenaline junkies Bali truly has it all. \xa0The best part has yet to be mentioned. Bali is extremely affordable, with''villas like this for as low as $20.''Check out more of our''favorite Bali hotels here.''Morocco''This''mesmerizing\xa0country in Northwest Africa''really has all the qualities to make it a top travel destination. For one it’s budget-friendly; it’s easy to get by on less than $40/day here. Two it’s in a great position for Europeans to get to. And three…well, just look at that photo above, the country is beautiful!''We traveled to Morocco for six weeks and visited some gorgeous locations like''Chefchauoen'', Essaouira, and Assilah. We even''lived with a Berber family''! I know many people question the safety of Morocco and personally, I don’t think woman or man has anything to worry about. However, if you still would rather travel with a group then why not check out these''awesome G Adventures tours''?''Five International Trips to Take with Your Tax Refund''was last modified:''March 9th, 2018''by''Natasha''Ljubljana happens to be''Slovenia''’s largest city and capital, but you wouldn’t know it. It has been named the greenest European city\xa0and features the largest pedestrian city center that is just brimming with life. Citizens and tourist alike love to drink coffee by the gorgeous riverfront. Our first day in Ljubljana we spoke to a local who described her city as “a little girl who likes to play dress-up in her mother’s clothes. She’s beautiful and has refined elements, but should never be taken too seriously.” The city center is brimming with cafes serving up the local specialty drink, a white coffee.''Café hopping in Ljubljana is a year-round affair, even in the winter when they roll out fur chairs, blankets, and heaters; it is hard to resist sitting outside when you have as beautiful of a waterfront as Ljubljana. \xa0With a student population of 50,000, it’s easy to understand why the city is filled with bars, coffee shops, and bookstores. Seriously, I’ve never seen more bookstores for a city of its size.\xa0The white coffee may not be for coffee aficionados, but it’s a shot of espresso topped with lots of milk and frothy foam. Pair the white coffee with a tasty cake and the European café culture is alive and well here. The only real problem is the abundance of cafes, so how do you choose? We took a break from our''backpacking adventure around Europe''to bring you a list of our favorite cafes in Ljubljana.''Best Coffee Shops in Ljubljana, Slovenia''Cajna Hisa''Cajna Hisa'': This café is for all those non-coffee drinkers that still need their caffeine fix. (Not to worry \xa0they have some of the best coffee in town too). Cajna Hisa also offers breakfast, sandwiches, and cakes to fill your appetite while you enjoy your tea. If you feel like some tea to go, the café is attached to their tea shop with plenty of loose-leaf teas to take home. Drink to try: Matcha Cappuccino''Le Petit Café''Le Petit Cafe'': \xa0Across the street from the University of Ljubljana, this café is filled with college students and professors looking for a break from their studies. \xa0It’s made to look like a classic European café with French posters plastering the wall and featuring classic wood tables. The café, like many in Ljubljana, has a large outdoor seating area perfect for catching some fresh air while reading a book. Le Petit café also turns into a great restaurant at night offering good food and wine. Drink to try: White Coffee''Centralna Postaja''Centralna Postaja'': Is it a coffee shop? A Radio Station? A bar? A restaurant? Or is it a shop? The answer would be all of the above. Centralna Postaja is hip, cool, and a little eccentric, but with a clear panache for a well-designed layout. They\xa0offer a full bar along with some great bar food staples. Burgers anyone? What to order: A Union Beer and a cheeseburger.''Tozd Bar''Tozd Bar'': Relaxed atmosphere with a cozy design. Tozd Bar has several bikes decorating the small cafe, adding a great element of quirkiness. Tozd Bar serves a nice selection of beers and wines complimented with a number of tapas. Most importantly, they offer''cold brew coffee'', which is simply awesome. What to order: Ruster Cold Brew (duh)''Caffetino''Caffetino'': This trendy coffee shop has no sign out front, but you can’t miss the selection of coffee roasting equipment in their window display. With a wide selection of worldly coffee beans, this is place is for those who take their coffee seriously. They offer a nice selection of baked goods to compliment your coffee. What to order: Turkish Coffee (Cappuccino for a more mild palate)''Kavarna Macek''Kavarna Macek'': This eclectic bar is situated right along Ljubljanica Riverfront. I wouldn’t say they specialize in anything, but they make up for that in fun. There is a large outdoor seating area and a lively crowd sipping out of kitschy cat mugs. What to order: Whatever you want''We loved trying out all these cafes in Ljubljana. Don’t forget that tipping 10% is common in many European cities. Check out our guide to''tipping in Europe''for the lowdown.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Ljubljana''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Ljubljana:''We like to use''Hotels.com''to make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in the Balkans we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Flights to the Balkans:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in the Balkans fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s just nice to have a real book. We like''Lonely Planet.''You May Also Like''The Essential Europe Packing List: Don’t Forget To Pack This Stuff!''15 Balkan Travel Tips You Should Know Before You Go''25 Smart Ways to Save Money for Travel''Travel Banking Breakdown: How to Save and Protect Your Money''15 Balkan Travel Tips • Know These Before You Travel to the Balkans''April 12, 2018''Traveling the Balkans? Here are 10 Must See Balkan Cities''February 22, 2018''I Want to Travel the World • 50 Memories in 50 Countries''October 29, 2016''We Traveled the World for a Year with a GoPro: Here’s What Happened''September 26, 2016''The Best Coffee Shops in Ljubljana, Slovenia''was last modified:''August 30th, 2017''by''Cameron''It is becoming commonly well known what to tip and where to tip when traveling through the typical tourist enclaves of Western Europe. For those traveling to''Italy'', a tip comes in the form of a service charge and tipping in Norway may leave locals flabergasted.''However, tipping in Europe is not the same everywhere. Traveling''extensively through Europe'', has left us always questioning tips come bill time. Tipping in Europe is still not what it is in North America, no one will chase you down the street should you chose not to tip. For your ease here is the lowdown on tipping in Europe.''Tipping in European Restaurants''Tipping in Eastern Europe is similar to the West as in the expected amount is typically a few euros for good service in a nice restaurant. This comes to around 5-10% of the bill, and can be simply a little extra given to the server. Tipping in cash is always the best way. There is no tip line when paying with a credit card, although you can ask for a little to be added onto the bill when paying. But there is no guarantee it will make it into the hands of your server.''Rounding up when paying is the usual way for tipping, for example, a bill of €27 could be rounded up to €30. And it’s pretty much universal to simply say “thank you” if no change is needed. When ordering food from a counter for takeaway no tip is expected.''By Country:''Austria:''Small amounts are the norm. It is very common to tip a little extra euro on the table, but does not need to be the extent of 10%. It is also becoming increasingly common to see a credit card line, so no need for cash.''Belgium:''You do not need to tip in Belgium seeing as there is a service charge, and when done a simple rounding up of the bill, paid in cash.''Croatia:''Tipping is generally not common in Croatia''. Servers are typically fairly paid, and tipping is really only at most a few extra Kuna for great service.''Cyprus:''Tipping along the''beaches of Cyprus''isn’t expected, but for good service one can leave a few Euro change on the table.''Czech Republic'': Service charges in nice restaurants are becoming increasingly common. Although it is not customary it is becoming increasingly common in touristy areas, and it typically a few Crowns.''Denmark:''Tipping is not common in Denmark unless you feel you’ve had exceptional service or the atmosphere requires it, there is no need to tip.''England:''Some sort of a service charge is expected. Look at the bill, if no service charge is included a tip of around 10% is considered common courtesy.''Estonia:''It is not customary, nor is it always expected. It can sometimes have the opposite effect and come across as an insult. For a simple meal in a small eatery the answer would generally be no, but in a large restaurant with a group, it would be considered very rude to not tip.''France:''With fine dining comes fine-dining prices. A service charge is almost always included in the bill, and around 15% at that. However, this does not mean that it always making its way into the pocket of the server, don’t worry they’ll kindly remind you of that. France can be difficult, and it’s almost always best to go with your gut. If it seems high for a reasonable meal it probably is; however, if your meal is hundreds of euros don’t think you’ll be getting off when it comes time to pay.''Germany:''10-15% and it’s safe to add it to the bill here.''Greece:''Tipping in Greece varies on when and where you’re eating. Some places a tip might even be turned down think local family taverna. Other places a simple tip of €1-2 on the table for the server should be adequate while eating at nice restaurants one should tip the standard 10%. It should be noted, the''Greeks are still facing serious economic woes''as salaries continue to drop, so any extra tip will certainly be appreciated.''Hungary:''Tips are pretty much standard in Hungary, 5-10% in cash should be good.''Italy:''You don’t tip here. There is a service charge as indicated on the menu, and you may even get an added nudge to tip from your server, but it is not expected and Italians themselves do not tip.''Tipping at cafes is also not expected.''Norway:''Tipping in Norway is pretty much unheard of.''Poland'': Tipping in Poland is pretty customary. A Tip of 10-15% is common and the tip should be given directly to the server.''Romania:''Tips in Romania are not mandatory, but not leaving a tip means you were dissatisfied with the service. 5-10% should be good here''Russia:''10% cash and given directly to the waiter.''Scotland:''While dining out in Scotland expect to tip around 10%.''Serbia:''Tipping is generally not expected as a service charge is already built into the prices on the menu, but it is generally in good manners to tip 5-10% of the bill for good service.''Slovakia:''Tipping in Slovakia is not standard, but rounding up as usual in''sit-down restaurants is pretty standard.''Spain:''Adding on a euro or two for each person in your party should be good here.''Sweden:''Just like in Norway there will either be a service charge, or you’re not expected to tip.''Switzerland:''Tip around 5-10%, but this is not expected.''Turkey:''Cash at around 10%, it’s pretty unlikely any server will see the tip if it’s on the credit card.''The basic gist of tipping.''Tipping in Europe is generally a pretty easy affair. Trust your gut. It’s always best to tip cash and hand the money to the server. Read the menu and bill to see if a service charge has been included, and when it warrants it, a safe bet is 10% of the bill.''With fine-dining in Europe, not tipping\xa0your server can be seen as an insult to the level of service, but it is also very common to see a gratuity charge added on to the bill (for exceptional service do not hesitate to tip a little more on to the service charge).''Additionally, when it comes to currencies local currency first, followed by Euros (which are pretty much always good). Not rocket science, but can make for an awkward encounter. Try to be as effortless as a local.''Plan Your Trip to Europe''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Wondering what to pack?''Check out our ultimate''Europe Packing List.''Accommodation:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'',''or to feel more at home try Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Flights:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Guide Book:''Sometimes it’s nice just to have a real book in your hands when traveling. We recommend''Lonely Planet''to get you through the wireless nights.''Read More:''The Honest Cost to Backpack Through Europe''March 6, 2018''25 Easy Ways to Save Money for Travel''August 22, 2017''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''August 19, 2017''Tipping in Europe: Tips on Restaurant Etiquette''was last modified:''April 17th, 2018''by''Cameron''I have been to Italy on six separate occasions, and each time I wondered “is Venice worth visiting”? The first two jaunts I avoided Venice like the plague. I had heard from travelers and Italians alike that Venice is way overrated. The city of canals was supposedly smelly, crowded, and expensive.''On my third trip to''Italy,''I just could not avoid it any longer. I had to see what all this fuss was about for myself. \xa0So, in the middle of February, we took a nine hour bus across the country to get to the city. \xa0We didn’t know what to expect. As our train pulled in I knew we were either going to love\xa0or hate Venice and soon would know if Venice was worth visiting. Here’s what we found in Venice, things to do, and a few of my top Venice travel tips so you can fall in love like we did.''Is Venice Worth Visiting?''Before I go into too much detail, the answer is yes.''Venice is absolutely worth visiting''. When I first went to Amsterdam, the Dutch were boasting that they had more canals than Venice. I’m sorry Dutchmen; as awesome as Amsterdam is no Venice.''“Wow, this is exquisite,” was the first thought that popped into my head when I saw the Grand Canal for the first time. However, this thought never went away during our whole stay in Venice. The beauty of the canals never got old; it truly is something out of this world. \xa0If someone were to ask me now if they should visit Venice, I would say absolutely, Venice is worth visiting. But then I would ask them:''“When are you planning to visit Venice?”''I mentioned at the beginning of this post that Venice is said to be crowded and expensive. After speaking to the locals and touring Venice first hand I would say that the time of year you plan to visit Venice crucial. \xa0We unexpectedly went there in the middle of February and hit it right with prices and with crowds. \xa0However a simple Google search of “Venice crowds” yields\xa0photos of the mass amount of tourist that flock to Venice every summer. Having the city to yourself is one of the many''advantages of traveling during the off season.''We also found great deals on accommodation in the shoulder season.''What to do in Venice''Now that you’ve decided when to visit Venice it’s time to make the most of your trip. \xa0Venice is made up of 117 small islands that are all linked by bridges. One of the best things to do in Venice is to wander around and get lost. \xa0The best way to get around Venice is by foot. There are no cars on these islands. So no road rage maniacs or loud motors ruining the peace. The sounds of the Venice streets are completely blissful.''There are many things to do in Venice besides take a gondola ride. \xa0The whole pensolon\xa0(municipality)\xa0of Venice is divided into 6 boroughs: Cannaregio, Castello, Dorsoduro, San Marco, San Polo, and Santa Croce. All have charming places to visit and delicious eats and drinks. Here are some attractions and activities that make Venice worth visiting.''Liberia Acqua Alta in the Castello district''This hidden bookshop/library was a unique find for us. It is off the beaten tourist path and tucked away in the Castello District. Many hours can easily be spent finding new and used books.''Ca’Macana\xa0in the Dorsoduro district''Mask shops pretty much rule the streets of Venice, but most of these are cheap imported masks marketing to tourist. Ca’Macana is a fabulous genuine mask shop in Venice that actually make all their own products. You can even find masks used in Stanley Kubrick’s''Eyes Wide Shut''here, as this is where they were made. The nice shop owners allowed us to have a lot of fun by letting us try all the masks on.''St Mark’s Square in San Marco district''No trip to Venice is complete without a visit to St. Marks Square in the San Marco district. \xa0This is the main public square in Venice and boasts stunning architecture from the Byzantine era. \xa0Here in St. Marks Square you can also find Cafe Florien; the oldest cafe in the world.''Wondering how to order an espresso? Read our''coffee guide to Italy.''Rialto Bridge in San Polo district''It’s hard to miss the bridge that connects the districts of San Marco and San Polo. Take a walk on it,''it is the first dry crossing of the Grand Canal.''Venice Eats & Drinks''Venice gets a bad rap for Italian food. \xa0Eating pizza in Venice is discouraged, as wood-fired ovens are banned from the island. However, we did find great and inexpensive local fare. Here are a couple noteworthy Venice eats.''Bacareto Da Lele''Perfect local wine and cicchetti shop. The place is tiny and there are no seats inside but the wine is flavorful (and cheap) and cicchetti makes\xa0for a midday snack.''Osteria Al Squero''Another great option for cicchetti. You can mix and match here as the different cicchetti options are endless. Small shop but there is enough room to sit inside or at the bar.''Gelateria Nico''A perfect option for mouthwatering Gelato with a great view. Located around the corner from\xa0Osteria Al Squero.''Tre Mercanti''For the best tiramisu in the city head to Tre Mercanti. A lovely specialty shop with a decadent collection of original tiramisus, macaroons, and wine. Standing room only so doesn’t come with sore feet.''Have yourself a Spritz''A\xa0Spritz Veneziano is a wine-based cocktail served as an aperitif in Northeast Italy. You can’t miss the endless signs for them around Venice. Our favorite Spritz was located at\xa0Bacareto Da Lele for a mere €1.50.''My Top Venice Travel Tips to Remember''Get up early or stay up late''Venice is her best before the crowds. Personally, I love getting up and seeing''Italian cities come''to life as the sun rises. It will start to get busy through the Venice streets by 10, and those crowds will stick around till after nightfall.''Don’t be fooled by restaurants''There. are. so. many. bad. restaurants. in Venice.''Full stop.''Venice has never been part of the “amazing world-renowned food” clump that the rest of Italy is in. That’s not to say you can’t get good food out in Venice, just recognize the signs of bad touristy places. Is an employee waiting outside the restaurant calling people in?''Avoid.''Is the menu in 20 different languages?''Avoid.''Do your research, ask around, and look at reviews before choosing a place to eat. I also like to look at menus before I commit to sitting down so I know the prices, as Venice can get very expensive.''Re-consider the gondola ride''Riding in a gondola while a gentle Italian sings you sweet nothings through the Venice canals is definitely a bucket list item. Just be aware that gondola rides cost''€''80 – per half hour! That singing man? Well he cost extra as well. If you do decide to enjoy a gondola ride in Venice, just be sure you actually''enjoying''it. About 80% of the people I see the gondolas are on their phones either Instagramming, taking countless photos, or just browsing? Kinda pointless in my opinion.''You’ll get lost''It’s not a matter of if, but when you will get lost through the streets of Venice. Just accept it and marvel in the rich history and beauty of this Italian city. There really is nowhere like it on earth!''Buy glass in Murano''Murano glass is world famous. It is special, unique, and very expensive and one should travel to the island of Murano if they are interested in this glass. Watch out for the imitations all over Venice. If it’s cheap, then it’s fake.''Wear good walking shoes''If you plan on exploring in Venice, you’ll be walking almost everywhere. Make sure you are wearing''comfortable walking shoes''for your days out.''There are grocery stores''Venice is filled with local vendors,\xa0cheese shops, meat markets, and produce vendors. If you are in need of a supermarket to do some more heavy duty shopping, Venice has those as well. Co-op and Conad are two of the big ones.''Between walking the endless bridges, gorging on Cicchetti, and drinking ourselves “spritzy,” we could have easily spent more than a week visiting Venice. Venice is certainly a floating city stuck in time and she is worth every second you can give.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Italy''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Make sure to find out''what to wear in Italy.''Accommodation in\xa0Italy:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com'', or to feel more at home in Italy we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Best Hotels in Italy:''We’ve got the most drool-worthy list of the best hotels in Italy.''Check it out here''!''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Italy fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''Remember that Italy uses both the\xa0\xa0“''Type L ” Italian adapter''and the''Europlug''. Many adapters are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged.''Read Next:''What to Wear in Italy All Year Round''15 Things to Know Before Going To Italy''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''The Best Hotels in Italy: Lake Como, Venice, Florence, Rome, & More''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''February 2, 2018''Is Venice Worth Visiting? Plus a Few Venice Travel Tips''was last modified:''April 14th, 2018''by''Natasha''Chiang Mai Coffee, The Best Spots For Digital Nomads''This is a guest post brought to you by Shannon Ullman of''Lives Abroad''.''Digital nomads have taken over Chiang Mai. I don’t know if it’s official but it feels like it when every café has at least one guy''grinding away on his laptop''. It’s not surprising really, with WiFi from all angles and more cafes than Pad Thai restaurants. Much of the online workforce has set up shop in Chiang Mai, and here’s where to find them.''CAMP''It’s an unlikely spot for inspiration if you ask me, but''CAMP''is a top contender with the rest of the Chiang Mai coffee cafes. Located on the top floor of Maya shopping mall, this café/study space is filled with digital nomads. In fact, CAMP is so popular for working that digital nomads often have to fight the local students for a seat. So, what’s the big fuss about a workplace with the view of a cinema and rushed shoppers? Here is why the DN love it.''Pros:''Plenty of seating and outlets''Private conference rooms for group meetings''Fast WiFi''Large community vibe''Networking possibilities''Central location''The extremely affordable food court located on the bottom floor of the mall''It’s open 24 hours''Cons:''It’s in a shopping mall''It can get crowded with students and other DN''If you are depending on their WiFi, you must buy something every 2 hours to keep using it''Kaweh''Not far from the Maya shopping mall is Kaweh. It doesn’t look like much from the outside and even from the coffee counter, it doesn’t seem too impressive. However, it opens up into multiple rooms that can’t be seen from the outside. Decorated to feel more like a living room than a coffee shop, working at Kaweh feels like being at home. Plus, for those who thrive on a little privacy, it gives you plenty of seclusion from the outside world to focus. Why else do people love it?''Pros:''It’s open 24 hours''There is plenty of seating and outlets''Centrally located''Comfortable''Cons:''The WiFi can get slow when the place fills up''There is only one bathroom shared by a large crowd''Update (5/16): Kaweh is now permanently closed.''Ristr8to''While it’s not an optimal work environment, true coffee lovers will turn''Ristr8to''into an office every once in a while. This place takes their coffee pretty seriously and for DN who want to treat themselves to a “cultured” cup while working, this café is the place. Let’s go over the benefits of working here.''Pros:''Strong and expertly made coffee''A large selection of coffee and styles''A social atmosphere''Cons:''Small amount of available workspace''Busy with a lot of distractions''Food4Thought''It’s not the easiest to find, making it typically free of tourists and outside distractions. Just as much a café as it is a restaurant, DN love''Food4Thought''because of its healthy menu featuring huge salads, wraps, and smoothies. The coffee lovers won’t miss out as the passionate barista Bay, makes a perfect cup. It has outdoor and indoor seating, a couple of cuddly cats roaming around and a backyard feel that is secluded, quiet and spacious. Why does the DN crowd love it?''Pros:''Plenty of work space''A diverse menu for both food and drinks''Friendly staff and fast service''Fast WiFi''Very little distraction''Cons:''It has more of a restaurant vibe than a café''It is more expensive than other restaurants and cafes''The location is a bit out of the way and it is best reached by motorbike''8 Days a Week''8 Days A Week''is lesser known than the other cafes, most likely because of its location. While it’s still walking distance from the main expat stomping grounds, it takes a few side streets to reach. This spot has got the coffee part down as well as the seating and overall vibe. Choose an indoor or outdoor workspace and don’t be surprised by the inspiration you might feel from the décor. A vintage television and stand-up bass, there are quite a few oddities that make the place feel like a cozy hideaway. Here are the benefits of this workspace.''Pros:''Versatile seating''Inspirational atmosphere''Typically un-crowded''Secluded location''Cons''Not very convenient to get to''The more comfortable seating is limited''About the Author''Shannon is an American travel blogger who writes about educational opportunities, workshops, classes and volunteering abroad. She also throws in a good dose of destination guides, personal stories, and helpful travel tips. At the moment, she is currently living out of a van while traveling through New Zealand. You can follow her adventures on''Lives Abroad''or visit her on''Facebook''.''Have your own favorite spot? Drop a comment below.''Chiang Mai Coffee: The Best Spots For Digital Nomads''was last modified:''August 11th, 2017''by''Cameron''Morocco has long been on my “must see” lists. The bright and colorful photos of the country always seemed to captivate me, and the Sahara desert was something I had only seen in movies. Due to Morocco’s proximity to''Europe'', more and more travelers are hopping on the next ferry out of Spain to visit Morocco for themselves. As soon as you cross the border you will be taken back into another world. As enthralling as it is, here are 15 things I wish I knew before traveling to Morocco.''Are you traveling to Morocco?''Marrakech is dubbed “scam city”, but so is the rest of the country.''Let’s just open up with the most obvious, Marrakech has been known for years to be a city full of scams and deceitfulness. Touts roam every corner waiting for a naive tourist to pass by to try and rip them off. You know when you read reviews online and think “Yea, this person is just paranoid, that will never happen.” Well after reading articles like''this''and''this''we thought that too. Turns out, that every scam that we had read about and tried to prepare for was a real thing! Crazy henna ladies, constant short-changing, and intentional wrong directions became daily battles in Marrakech. However, it didn’t just stop there, almost every city we visited during our six weeks while traveling in Morocco had its own way of persistently trying to scam you. Do your research before, know what to look out for, and don’t let those scammers get the best of you. \xa0Just when you’re about to let your guard up—don’t.''Brush up on your language skills.''Moroccan Arabic is the official language of Morocco. Berber is completely different than Arabic and is spoken by the Berber people. Next there is French, which many Moroccans can speak fluently. If you’re going to Northern Morocco, near Spain, you may find that many of the locals even speak Spanish. That’s a lot of languages in one country; so, brushing up on that high school foreign language will certainly make your experience a little more enjoyable.''Or pick up a Arabic language book!''And in case you forgot…''Berbers are an ethnic group indigenous to Northern Africa. They make up over 70% of the Moroccan population!''Get to know some of them,''they are among some of the most welcoming people I have ever met.''Don’t catch yourself taking a local bus.''Besides renting a car, there are three main ways of transportation and traveling around Morocco – train, bus, and taxi. You have two options for buses—to go local or choose a private bus company. Save yourself the hassle and pay to take a private, “touristy,” bus. The local buses are extremely crowded, run down, and stop for literally every Joe Schmoe on the side of the road. Supratours and CTM are the two private bus companies, they are still inexpensive by western standards and provide much better comfort.''Grand taxis are not grand.''Your other option is to take a grand taxi to get from point A to point B. Before you go thinking that you’ll be in the back seat of a luxury crown sedan, let me explain. A grand taxi is a small 4 door jalopy that Jimi Hendrix probably rode in when he visited Morocco in the 60’s. The taxis go to certain destinations and wait until the car is filled with 6 passengers until they hit the road. Undoubtedly,\xa0an experience and also a cheap way of transport—just not exactly comfortable.''The Sahara is''really really really''far away.''If you’re going to Morocco and have some time to explore I’m sure seeing the Sahara is high on your list. It’s beautiful and will take your breath away—just know that it is extremely far away. I’m talking like 10 hours of straight driving through mountainous regions far. I knew this going in, but it still felt like''forever''trying to get to the dunes.''A good thing to note is that the desert gets extremely cold at night as well, so make sure to know''what to wear in Morocco''and pack accordingly.''Book your Sahara tour!''Fill up on your vitamin C.''One thing I will certainly be missing is my daily Vitamin C fill. You’ll find fresh squeezed orange juice just about everywhere when you travel Morocco! Are you ready for the best part? It’s only 4 DH ($.40)! You can actually find a variety of fresh juices all around, including my personal favorite – avocado and banana juice.''Bread lovers unite''Anyone planning to go on a no carb diet should hold off until they leave Morocco. Bread or “Khubz” in Arabic is a daily part of life here, and is a large portion of every breakfast, lunch, and dinner. It often replaces silverware in that you essentially scoop your food with it! We were able to escape the bread madness on a few occasions, including that one time we went to Tangier''just to have this meal''.''….and sugar fiends.''To help you achieve that perfect bikini bod is breads’ BFF—sugar. You’ll be brushing your teeth 3 times a day with all the sweet treats in Morocco. Moroccans will constantly be inviting you in for their special mint tea or “Berber whiskey,” and it is addicting! However, to save yourself an extra trip to the dentist when you get home, ask for no sugar.''Get your camera ready.''There are so many beautiful things in Morocco. If you’re wondering what Morocco is known for it’s the colors, the textures, the shapes.''Everything in Morocco so darn mesme''ri''zing''. Pack your camera with an extra memory card before going to Morocco, and get ready to become''instafamous''.''For some picturesque views from above,''try a hot air balloon ride with a camel ride after.''Watch Maze Runner before you land.''Accept the fact that while you are in the medinas of Fez and Marrakech you will get lost. I had read about the thousands of old streets before landing in the country, but didn’t quite understand their scale until I was walking them myself. The old medinas are an intricate maze that not even Google Maps can detect. Your best bet is to just let it happen, get lost and enjoy what you find. It’s not a matter of if, but when.''Learn to love Riads''So what is a riad?''A riad is a traditional Moroccan guesthouse, and chances are you will be staying in at least one while visiting Morocco. Usually, riads are a couple stories with a big open courtyard in the middle. Bedrooms are on every side of the square. It is something that I found cute and fun at first, but I grew to hate them after six weeks. As a wannabe sun goddess, I became annoyed with the fact that there is virtually no natural light in the bedrooms, and that they are generally very noisy. To each their own.''Bargainers Beware''I want to note that Morocco isn’t''that''cheap. Sure, Morocco is''more affordable than Western Europe,''Australia, and the United States but if you are coming here thinking it’s going to be like Thailand then you should reassess your budget. We were''able to get by in Chefchaouen''and''Essaouira''for less than $25 a day, but some days in the bigger cities are going to run you upwards $30 a day (this is budget backpacking). If you’re looking for a little more of a mid-range experience then budget for about $40-50 a day. Find more information on pricing''here''.''No, the Moroccan men are not your friend''Now I’m not saying that you can’t have a genuine Moroccan friend because you definitely can! However, if some strange man in the medina starts randomly approaching you, run for the hills. \xa0It seems that Morocco is just swarming with “nice guys” that are willing to show you around or assist you in some unwanted way. Generally, some young (ish) guy will start talking to you, claiming to be your friend, asking where you’re from, and the list goes on, and on. Some of these men are sketchy at first glance, but some could be on their way to the Oscars with their 5-star performance.''Chances are you were probably raised to be a polite person. Be forewarned, your politeness may quickly lead you to a scam. Use your common sense and trust your gut. A firm “no” (or “la” in Arabic) will usually do the trick to whatever they have up their sleeve. Even just asking for directions in big cities will result in you paying some sort of “tip”. It’s sad, but I stopped trusting anyone while in this country; men, little boys, hotel owners, and even the cats seemed shady! The only time I completely found refuge from this was in the villages with my''Berber family homestay''. I’m not saying Morocco isn’t a good place to visit, but just be aware that if something seems questionable – it probably is.''You’re never in any real danger''Despite the constant lies, scamming, and unwanted groping, we never found ourselves in any real danger and Morocco is a great place to visit. We traveled as a couple most of the time, but I had met plenty of women traveling alone who were enjoying Morocco to it’s fullest! Sure, you may want to pull your hair out and scream more than once, but you will leave the country in one piece.''Bonus!''Don’t expect to rake in airline miles with your credit card purchases while in Morocco. We did not pay with a credit card''once''while in Morocco. Everywhere is cash only unless you are in a McDonalds and in a major urban city. Flash your Visa and you will get stared at like a crazy person. Check out our top''travel banking tips''for your travels!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Morocco''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Morocco:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''or to feel more at home''in Morocco we use Airbnb, here are some''Airbnb tips''in case you have never used them before''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We didn’t drink the water from the taps in Morocco. Instead, we filtered everything with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''. Here are more of our''favorite travel water bottles.''Guide Book:''I know the internet is great, but sometimes it just doesn’t feel as great as a real book. We like to travel with''Lonely Planet''for those wireless nights.''Adaptor:''Don’t forget that Morocco uses the Europlug. Make sure to pack a good adaptor''like the one I have.''You May Also Like:''What to Pack for Morocco: A Dress Code Guide''The Beauty Is In The Details: Morocco''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''I Want to Travel the World: 50 Memories in 50 Countries''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''All About Morocco’s Blue City, Chefchaouen • The Ultimate Guide''October 27, 2017''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''May 2, 2017''15 Things I Wish I Knew Before Traveling to Morocco''was last modified:''May 3rd, 2018''by''Natasha''Tivoli and Villa D’este''Rome has to be one of the most interesting cities in the world and has been an international destination since the birth of international tourism. However, not everyone wants to spend a large amount of time in a major metropolitan city. So, you need a little escape away from the hustle and bustle of Rome. We found refuge in Tivoli. It’s a perfect escape from the city with a beautiful hilltop medieval city, stunning estates, good food, and a few roman ruins. Day trips to the town are easy to manage, or you can opt to stay in a number of B&Bs.''Getting to Tivoli is super easy and cheap by train with access from the Tiburtina train station, which is accessed by the metro since it is on the outer parts of the city. The average price for a round trip train ticket is 8 Euros. Arrival to the Tivoli train station is just outside of the city center. A short bridge across the river takes you into town and signage is well marked to get you to Villa D’este or anywhere else in town. You can find the train times and book tickets on the''TrenItalia''website. If it is your first time in the country make sure to note the\xa0rules\xa0correctly and''validate your ticket.''The old city of Tivoli is quiet and makes for a pleasant walk around. The whole city can be walked in around thirty minutes. The city used to be a retreat for ancient Romans and Aristocrats of Renaissance. Which produced the some stunning villas. We toured Villa D’este, which is more or less the crowning jewel of the town. There is also Villa Hadrian, the sprawling former estate of the famous Roman Emperor, not to be missed if time permitted.''Villa D’este:''Entrance into Villa D’este costs around €8, and in the summer should be booked in advanced since tickets are based on times to control the number of visitors at once. The interior of Villa D’este is nothing spectacular, but the terraced garden with a large fountain system is where the villa shines. The fountains flow with natural pressure from the nearby river. Just check out the photos.''The interior of the villa is filled with frescos and large corridors. We spent half and hour just wandering through the rustic villa. It was room after room with large windows facing out to the Italian countryside, and the impressive gardens.''The Villa was built by\xa0Cardinal Ippolito II d’Este after his failed bid of Palpacy. So the majority of the frescos are religious in theme with a number of churches throughout the premises.''The Villa is great to spend some time wandering around and snapping photos. We had some fun with the spiral staircase.''The real reason of coming to Villa D’este lies in its gardens. The fountains are truly impressive with water shooting 10 meters up using only water pressure from the diverted river.''Villa D’este is filled with the sound of running water as you descend through the terraced garden.''Meandering through the modest garden is romantic and the details from the age of the fountains are enchanting.''Some of the fountains of Villa D’este are truly impressive and covered in centuries of plant growth, only adding to the charm.''The estate of Villa D’este looks down from its terraced hilltop onto the surrounding suburbs of Rome. The scale of the largest fountain called The Organ Fountain, for the hydraulic organ that sits atop it, is impressive.''Where to eat in Tivoli:''While you’re in the town you’ll need to grab something to eat.''L’Ape 50''is just on the outer parts of the medieval section of town, and the perfect place to grab lunch with excellent panini and salads. There is also the cheaper option of Da Pippo offering fantastic paninis served from behind a counter. There are also''plenty of bars'', to grab a quick cafe while you’re at it.''Those staying longer in town, or those who have it in their budget, should enjoy a fantastic meal at''Sibilla''. The restaurant’s outdoor garden offers views of the old Gregoriano bridge and the waterfalls that descend down from the town. The tables in the back of the restaurant circle around an ancient Roman temple and offer a rare chance for fine dining in ancient history. Sibilla has been in operation for almost three hundred years. The restaurant has attracted a few celebrities and politicians over the years; I will let them''list''a few “''King''Frederick William III''of''Prussia'', Prince''Jerome''Napoleon'',''Gabriele D’''Annunzio''and''Pietro''Mascagni'';''Today''Secretaries''of''State''and''Vice-Presidents''of the USA'',''Hiroito''the Emperor''of Japan'',''Princess Margaret of''Inghileterra'', singer''Yoko''Ono''and''the first man''on the moon''Neil''Armstrong''.”''Where to Stay in Tivoli:''You have two great ways to go when staying in Tivoli. You can select from any of the wonderful Bed & Breakfasts available in town or you can rent your own apartment. We were on a budget and opted for renting our own apartment, in order to cook some of our own meals. We loved our stay and would definitely recommend staying with Pietro and Alessia, check out their listing''here''. If it’s your first time using AirBnb click on this''link''to get €18 off your first rental.''Notable Sites to see in town:''Villa Adriana''Parco Villa Gregoriana''Rocca Pia Castle''Villa D’este''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Italy''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Italy:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in Italy we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Best Hotels in Italy:''We’ve got the most drool-worthy list of the best hotels in Italy.''Check it out here''!''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Flights to\xa0Italy:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in\xa0Italy:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Italy fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''$19.50''Looking for more awesome tips? We suggest picking up Rick Steves’ book on Italy. Rick Steves is pretty much one of our idols and has been leading people through Europe for decades now.''Check The Price Here!''Any questions? Or know of another great escape to get away from the crowds in Rome?''Tivoli and Villa D’este the perfect escape from Rome''was last modified:''January 28th, 2017''by''Cameron''As regular watchers and even readers of Anthony Bourdain, we knew that a must do when we got to Morocco was to visit the very same restaurant that he ate at when he was in Tangier. In an episode of the popular show''Parts Unknown'', Bourdain travels to the tip of Northern Morocco to explore the craziness of Tangier.''We took a day trip there from Assilah via grand taxi''(read more about those grand taxis here'') which costs 20 DH and takes about 1 hour. Most importantly there are a few''tips everyone should know before going to Morocco''.''One of the Best Meals Ever!''After exploring the city, our stomachs were calling to us so we set out for Le Saveur De Poisson in Tangier. \xa0Surprisingly the small restaurant was incredibly easy to find. Located on\xa0Escalier Waller, you will walk down a long flight of steps and find the restaurant open for business between 12-3pm, and 5-10pm (hours of Feb 2016). \xa0Step in and take a seat for the meal of a lifetime.''No need to look at a menu or choose between entrees. Everyone gets the same four-course meal with the freshest catch of the day. \xa0The food gracefully arrives in front of you soon after you sit.''The first course was enough alone to fill me up. Fish soup, olives, peanuts, bread and spicy chili sauce accompanied by a special drink made from a special blend of fig, prune, and herbs. \xa0I came to find out that the juice was unlimited so don’t hold back. I sure didn’t!''Within no time came the second course. \xa0A blend of spinach, baby shark, and baby squid flaming hot.''I was struggling to make room in my stomach for the main meal – baby shark skewers and some fish that I could not even tell you the name of. But it was delicious!''Just when you thought your stomach couldn’t handle anymore the waiter brings our dessert. Fresh strawberries, raspberries, and pine nuts drizzled with honey. \xa0We gobbled it down within a minute.''It goes without saying that Bourdain (and his producers) sure know how to pick food. \xa0We set out to have a great meal in Morocco, and that’s exactly what we got. After a month of tajines and couscous, this was a superb treat.''Helpful Information:''Location:''2 Escalier Waller, Tangier, Morocco''Price:''200 DH (about $20) per person. Certainly not cheap, especially for Morocco. However, as our one splurge meal in the country, we decided it was worth it.''Good to know:''I’ve heard there is usually a line to eat at Le Saveur De Poisson. We were here in the''off-season''and although the restaurant was full, we did not have to wait. \xa0It’s best to get here right when the restaurant opens for fast seating.''Read Next:''Best Carry On Backpacks to Help You Pack Smart''21 Europe Packing List Items You Don’t Want to Forget''The Best Travel Cameras To Buy For Your Next Trip''The Best Scottish Food Restaurants: Our Culinary Journey''19 Movies About Africa to See Before Visiting the Continent''January 1, 2018''All About Morocco’s Blue City, Chefchaouen • The Ultimate Guide''October 27, 2017''Let’s Talk About the Internet in Africa''May 2, 2017''Things to Do in Essaouira: A Beach Holiday in Morocco''February 26, 2017''Dining At Le Saveur De Poisson in Tangier''was last modified:''November 14th, 2017''by''Natasha''I read a blog post not that long ago about the narcissism of traveling and the next extension of that, travel blogging. The idea was that those who travel these days are inherently narcissistic, and are becoming increasingly passé about the world at large. That certainly cannot be us or any other travelers we know, right? What in our minds distinguishes''us''from “those” other travel blogs?''Nothing.''It is okay that someone had a similar experience before, or that they have their own blog post on that city, town, region, or beach for that matter. If you don’t like a place, you are entitled to your own opinion, and if you enjoy something make sure to share it too.''“You travel for yourself.”''You\xa0travel for yourself, and that it is inherently narcissistic; and if you write that too is inherently narcissistic. Sylvia Plath said, “I think writers are the most narcissistic people. Well, I mustn’t say this, I like many of them, a great many of my friends are writers.” That would mean that all travel writers must be self-obsessed assholes. Sort-of, Plath has always been a bit bleak anyways. Writing and traveling are introspective affairs. They force the participant, the traveler, and the writer to look in towards themselves, some, more so than others. To combine the two requires some form of an ego, something that says''“I want people to value my personal experiences.”''Or that the writer feels they can better sort through their own sentiments with an audience. Then again, everyone who travels must have some form of an ego. Does that make you a bad person? No, you’re no different than anyone else. Traveling is just as much rooted in the real world as a pharmacist, ironworker, photographer, or sales representative. The end of the day we are all working for ourselves (those with a family choose that too, don’t tell me you work for your children). We’re all questioning ourselves. Life is a struggle, writing can be a struggle,''traveling can be a struggle''. There is a large difference, though, between an accountant and a car salesman. Forget the constant unfamiliarity. There is a deeper emotion at the heart of it, which is conflict.''“Constant conflict within themselves.”''Travelers are faced with constant conflict within themselves. Especially, those of us from developed nations where we are given tremendous opportunities. Anyone afforded the ability to travel freely cannot avoid some form of guilt. Often, we witness the division of wealth in developing nations with extreme poverty, we are faced with the inadequacies of our own society, or our beliefs are challenged by people with different ideologies; It is a confrontation with the struggles of life around the world. As we travel, we meet and share experiences with people who do not have the same opportunity as ourselves; yet, we feel we can relate to them. Can we? More importantly, can I? I come face to face with this contrast. A contrast I would not be presented with where I was born. There are no slums in Charlotte, North Carolina. Bad neighborhoods? Yes, of course, but that and the poverty seen in other nations hardly compares.\xa0Life it seems is a constant struggle. This contrast doesn’t have to be an epiphany either; it could be as simple as a revaluation of priorities while on a family cruise. Maybe that conference call isn’t so important.''“You’re a better person, right?”''That means travel makes you a better person?''No''. To me it’s an increased awareness, an understanding of the world at large and your place in it. It is not some enlightenment. It is not about knowing what it is like to be Thai,''Italian'', or Moroccan simply because I spent an extended amount of time in that country. You’re not going to go to a yoga retreat in''Rishikesh'', and understand the meaning of life. To me it is a realization of how much I do not know. I am not expert on Central Asian Politics, the fall of Yugoslavia, or the identity of an Arab. I do not know the struggles to be a Latvian; sorry, Californian bro who tried to explain this to me, but you don’t fucking know. I would be insulted if a Latvian told me what it was like to be an American. What I do know is what I do not. Travel has taught me that naivety, ignorance, and assumptions to situations, people’s sentiments, feelings, ideas, and groups is a dangerous thing. Traveling for myself has taught me that this awareness spurs growth. And growth can be one of the most important aspects in life.''“You get what you give.”''You should ask yourself “Is this truly narcissistic?” If travel were causing someone to grow as a human being, then I would say\xa0no. \xa0That does not mean that travel and personal growth go hand, and hand. It is entirely possible to go somewhere and not return with a different point of view. It’s dubious that a week on Haad Rin face down in the sand surrounded by buckets of alcohol is going to cause any sort of personal growth (best case scenario an aversion to flaming kerosene soaked ropes, or plastic buckets). I think you get what you give. That the cruise through the Caribbean may offer just as much to a particular person, that another would find traveling through Western Africa. It isn’t about volunteering at some orphanage or teaching English, which is wonderful. A traveler robbed on the streets at night may find a silver lining. If the traveler makes some personal growth, and that affects another positively than travel is not narcissistic.''“Traveling isn’t narcissistic.”''It doesn’t have to be filled with great moments, vivid sunsets, or transformative interactions; travel is moments in time. Moments that can be a sentence said to you at an airport, or summiting a mountain. Travel and life are a collection of those moments some good, and some bad. The unfamiliarity just adds some spice to it all; it spurs growth and grounds the traveler to reality. So, don’t tell me that travel is narcissistic, except that it is.''When Traveling Isn’t Narcissistic''was last modified:''September 24th, 2016''by''Cameron''How many times have you gone out of your way to spend a week with a stranger in the middle of nowhere? We can’t say that we do very often, but after our first week in the hectic city of''Marrakech'', we were ready for some peace and quiet in the\xa0High Atlas Mountains of Morocco.''Peace and quiet was exactly what we got when we took a 2 hour long “grand” taxi ride crammed with 5 other people to Berber Cultural Center. Before I get into it, I put grand in quotations because these taxis are nowhere near luxurious, and instead a ride where we were got closer to the Moroccan locals than ever been before. However, for 50 Dirham (about $5) I really can’t complain about being squashed like sardines into a 1970’s sedan. When in Morocco, right!''We are dropped off in the city of Imintanout in the High Atlas Mountains of Morocco. Imintanout is virtually untouched by tourism, and we were left standing in the middle of it with hundreds of locals staring at, the only outsider for miles. They know we’re outsiders, we knew we were outsiders. So there we are, awkward Americans in rural Morocco wondering what in the world to do next.''Then a lovely man named Mohamed and his family appear with a smile, and he transferred us to the Berber Cultural Center in the small and ever more rural village called Boulaaouane. With very few expectations, we enter the beautiful Berber Cultural Center to begin our week as a Berber.''Read More: {''Things to Know Before Going to Morocco''}''Our week in the High Atlas Mountains''To begin the Berber Cultural Center is beautiful, spacious, and completely secluded. There are tables and chairs everywhere to engage with everyone, a massive kitchen and comfortable living room, and an enclosed backyard to watch the sun go down and dwell under starry nights.''From the first day we arrived to all the way through the week we were immersed in true Berber Culture. Never once did I feel like a tourist like in Marrakech or other cities. We were treated as equals and lived among the other villagers partaking in their daily lives.''Our first full day there we learned that tagine is your basic lunch meal every day. However, tagine is not basic, and it is certainly not something that North Americans would think to have for lunch. Tajine is similar to a classic stew – it takes hours to prepare properly and is usually a blend of meats and vegetables. It is always served in a Moroccan style pot that is actually called a Tajine. We were able to prepare the bread and Tajine from scratch with Mohamed’s Aunt and Uncle – which was great fun but certainly not our specialty!''Two hours and some oven baking later we had our tajine, and it was a masterpiece. The rest of the day was spent away from civilization and mingling with the''Berbers''in bliss.''Read More:''{''Finding Peace Within the Moroccan Blue Paint''}''The next day we awoke with the sun to go to the weekly market. \xa0Berbers don’t go to grocery stores or supermarket, but instead, they spend Mondays and Wednesdays amongst their neighbors and barter it out for their weekly meats, vegetables, carpets, donkeys, and spices. \xa0We were able to pick out our eggs and vegetables with Berber locals; otherwise we would have been completely lost. Soon after we were sitting with our mint tea while\xa0the Berber men cooked up the best omelet I’ve ever had.''The next stop was to pick out a rabbit. No, not for a pet, but for lunch later. I had never eaten rabbit, and I really don’t fancy eating it either. \xa0However, our Berber family prefers eating it once a week. Instead of getting it at the local supermarket, they pick it out of an old man’s magic bunny box in the market.''Read More:''{''The Ultimate Guide to Essaouria''}''What I’m about to say could upset some animal lovers out there (and I am an animal lover too). But the rabbit that I was just petting we soon had to kill. We sat and watched the men slaughter the rabbit the halal way. \xa0Halal is the permissible way to slaughter an animal under Islamic Sharia Law, and ultimately limits the amount of pain endured.''Read More:''{''What to Pack for Morocco and Be in Line with the Dress Code''}''This was the part of the day that I knew I would not like, but I felt it was important to see because 1: it is how the Berbers (and a lot of the world) prepare their food, and 2: Not all meat is neatly packaged with plastic wrap at the grocery store for consumers precious eyeballs, and it’s important for us Westerners to realize that. This is where meat comes from.\xa0So in a couple swift knife swipes the rabbit was dead and was soon being prepared for our daily tajine. (Note: The verdict is I do not like the taste of rabbit, very game-y).''The rest of our week at the Berber Cultural Center was filled with a lot more cooking, mint tea times, and reading the days away. \xa0One day we were able to visit one of the village’s sixth-grade schools to play volleyball and interact with the children. Another highlight was spending our last day hiking and picnicking through the beautiful High Atlas Mountains.''Read More:''{''Following the Amazing Anthony Bourdain to Tangier''}''The Atlas Mountains are beautiful and almost untouched, but thank god we were there in January as hiking in the summertime would have been unbearably hot! \xa0One of the local men even let me ride his donkey back to town!''Life at the Berber Cultural Center and among the villagers is a very simple life. \xa0Many of days revolve around food – which I am certainly not complaining about! Coming to Mohamed’s\xa0beautiful center let us experience Berber life first hand and has been a highlight of our trip to Morocco!''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Morocco''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in Morocco:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in Morocco we use Airbnb''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Here are the most popular destinations\xa0in Morocco:''Marrakesh'',''Fés'',''Essaouira'',''Tangier'', and''Chefchaouen''.''Flights to Morocco:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in Morocco:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We didn’t drink the water from the taps in Morocco. Instead, we filtered everything with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''.''Guide Book:''I know the internet is great, but sometimes it just doesn’t feel as great as a real book. We like to travel with''Lonely Planet''for those wireless nights.''I was able to contact the''Berber\xa0Cultural Center''located in the High Atlas Mountains via Workaway. \xa0For a very small fee, we were provided with all accommodation, activities, and food. \xa0I am not affiliated with the Berber Cultural Center.''You May Also Like''My Week as a Moroccan Berber in the High Atlas Mountains''was last modified:''January 28th, 2017''by''Natasha''The secrets out. We LOVE coffee! Even better than the coffee itself, is the surroundings your submerged in while sipping on those freshly ground beans.\xa0When we get to a new, unknown, and unexplored city we always set out to find that perfect cafe. \xa0Apparently, so do other travel bloggers – here are the best cafes around the world, as told by travel bloggers!''20 Best Cafes Around the World''Aunty Pegs in\xa0Melbourne, Australia''Why is it the best?''As huge coffee snobs, discovering and chilling out in epic coffee shops has been a huge part of our traveling lifestyle!\xa0Our favorite has to be Aunty Pegs, an epic cafe tucked down a side street in the heart of''Melbourne, Australia!''It’s all about industrial chic design in this vast warehouse space… Of course, they have multiple roasters for their own beans… Of course they have all the best custom espresso machines – and obviously, they sell $40 per cup rare varieties..!''…And they only serve it black – that’s right, no milk! No syrups or chocolate sprinkles either! So next time you’re in Melbs and want a proper cup hit up Aunty Pegs!''Purr Cat Cafe Bangkok, Thailand''Hannah at''Getting Stamped:''Why is it the best?''One of the furriest and cutest cafe in the world is found in the crazy city of Bangkok. If you are heading to Bangkok and looking for a unique cafe make sure to check out Purr Cat Cafe. While you enjoy a cup of coffee or cool down for a brownie ice cream sundae, some of the cutest cats will keep you entertained. Gorgeous cats everywhere, walking above your head on their “walkway”, chasing glitter balls, relaxing on your table, or if you’re lucky curled up in your lap. You can even buy the cats a bowl of milk, which will make you the most popular person in the room. Prices are comparable with other cafes in Bangkok, and it’s super easy to find only 10-minute walk from the BTS stop, Thong Lor.''Lovecrumbs in Edinburgh, Scotland''Sonja at''Migrating Miss'':''Why is it the best?''The best cafe I have ever found while traveling was luckily in my''home base of Edinburgh'', so I was able to spend many happy times there, enjoying the cake, coffee and free wifi. Lovecrumbs is a cake-only cafe, but if you ever go, you’ll see why cake is all you need! The cakes are displayed in a wooden dresser, with the offerings of the day described on a blackboard. Everything I have had there has been amazing, the coffee included. These aren’t just your traditional chocolate and carrot cakes (although these options are divine!) but there are different flavours like coffee & rose, cardamon & white chocolate, and fig & vanilla. Add these delectable cakes, brownies and slices to the perfect setting in an old Edinburgh shop with mismatched vintage furniture and a window seat ideal for people watching and frittering away the day in and I’m in heaven. Located in West Port near the Grassmarket, this cafe should be on everyone’s list when visiting Edinburgh.''MK Classico Cafe in Kuching, Malaysia''Stefan at''Nomadic Boys:''Why is it the best?''In August 2015, we spent a month exploring Malaysia Borneo and based ourselves for most of it in Kuching in Sarawak. We loved it. It’s got a really chilled vibe and people so warm and eager to show off the place to you. We made a lot of friends in Kuching and would meet at the super cool MK Classico Cafe (at Lot 30, Section 47, Jln Tabuan).\xa0MK Classico is very homey with quite quirky decoration making it almost like a gallery. But the real highlight for us were the cakes. Especially the\xa0pandan gula apong (ie palm sugar pandan) cake.''Musee d’Orsay Restaurant in Paris, France''Noel at''Travel Photo Discovery:''Why is it the best?''If you want to go to one of the most glamorous museum restaurants in Paris and one of the best cafes around the world, you need to make reservations for lunch at the Musee d’Orsay restaurant. After a wonderful visit to the many impressionistic galleries the museum is celebrated for, a lunch break is the perfect time to exit to the restaurant and believe me, everything is excellent. I went for the Prix fix lunch and it made for a perfect day in Paris.''Panadería in Tayrona National Park, Colombia''Gemma at''Two Scots Abroad'':''Why is it the best?''Panadería in Tayrona National Park can only mean one thing \xad- dense bread with melted chocolate in the middle! Get it whilst it’s hot. I read about this cafe/bakery in the Lonely Planet guidebook and put it high on our itinerary whilst visiting Colombia’s national park. It’s a little tricky to find but\xa0if you walk the coastal route as opposed to through the trees you will stumble across it nestled between the beaches! The bakery has other options for those with a savory tooth.''Sweetleaf Coffee in Long Island City, Queens, NYC''Carole at''Berkeley and Beyond''Why is it the best?''More retro coffeehouse than a cute cafe, cozy Sweetleaf Coffee in Long Island City, Queens, is a great place to visit for a snack—perhaps a savory pepper-pear scone and some dark hot chocolate like I enjoyed.\xa0 Though it is tiny, it has a choice of three spaces to sit—a sunny area with overstuffed chairs, a''laptop''room adjacent to the glass-wall kitchen where you can see the yummy goodies being made, and a record room in back where you can choose from several hundred old-time records and take over the turntable.\xa0 I’m looking forward to a return visit.''Ms. Bunny in Tokyo, Japan''Matilda at''The Travel Sisters'':''Why is it the best?''Tokyo is well-known for quirky cafes but our absolute favorite is Ms. Bunny, near the Roppongi Metro station. \xa0As the name hints, Ms. Bunny is no ordinary cafe. \xa0For a small fee, visitors can\xa0cuddle, play with and feed\xa0real live bunnies. \xa0Apparently, there are quite a few of these cafes scattered around the city\xa0as many locals find it relaxing to stop by during lunch or after work. \xa0We were so enamored with our new furry friends, we never actually\xa0bothered to even\xa0drink anything.''Read More:''{Have You Heard of Rabbit Island, Japan?}''Blómasetrið – Kaffi Kyrrð in\xa0Borgarnes, Iceland''Eileen at''Crooked Flight'':''Why is it the best?''I landed in Iceland''with just the hotels booked and few other plans. This led us to a cozy cafe on the first day in the town of Borgarnes, about an hour north of Reykjavik. Called Blómasetrið – Kaffi Kyrrð, this eclectic shop and cafe looks like grandma’s house and smells of her baking. I had a swiss mocha and slice of freshly made quiche while I settled into a giant plush chair surrounded by books and local artwork. The woman running the show was warm and didn’t mind if we sat there all day, avoiding the blustery wind and snow outside. Locals popped in from time to time to proclaim hello and hug the owner. I felt like I had lived there my whole life.''Cafe Du Monde in New Orleans, Louisiana''Lance at''Travel Addicts'':''Why is it the best?''One of the most iconic cafes in the world is\xa0Café Du Monde in New Orleans.\xa0 Since 1862, this café on the banks of the Mississippi River has been serving café au lait and beignets to tourists and locals alike.\xa0 Open 24 hours a day (except when a hurricane rolls through town), Café Du Monde is the place where New Orleans meets to socialize and read the paper.''Bombay Bicycle Club in Cape Town, South Africa''Lies at''Non Stop Destination:''Why is it the best?''I visited the Bombay Bicycle Club when I was''living in Cape Town''for 2 months. It’s a very quirky bar and restaurant on one of Cape Town’s popular streets.\xa0It has so many peculiar features, I don’t even know where to begin! From swings and full sized beds hanging from the ceiling to an odd selection of items adorning every inch of the walls.\xa0The whole place looks like ordered chaos and every second you’ll discover something new.\xa0You can enjoy tasty''South African wines''as well as delicious cocktails. I haven’t tried their food, but their venison carpaccio, pear and brie salad and phyllo parcels sound mouth-watering!''Gelarto Rosa in Budapest, Hungary''Kylie at''Between England and Iowa'':''Why is it the best?''Located opposite St. Stephen’s Basilica, Gelarto Rosa is a cute little ice cream parlor/cafe. \xa0I visited in winter and it was perfect to escape the snow and people watch through the window! \xa0They specialize in making ice cream in the shape of roses (I had white chocolate and lavender!) and their hot chocolate is so thick it tastes just like melted chocolate, amazing!''Read More: {''The Best Backpacks to Travel Europe With''}''Funky Monkey Café in Pushkar, India''Swati at''Lost in Maps'':''Why is it the best?''Pushkar is a tiny town in Rajasthan, India, known mainly for the cattle fair that is held there every year. Apart from that, Hindu pilgrims visit this town for various temples around the Pushkar lake.But lately, it has become famous for its hippie vibe that attracts more young crowd including Indians and foreigners. That has given way to backpackers hostels and cozy cafes. It is also one of the popular destinations for Photographers.''Away from the hustle-bustle of the main street but not too far off is Funky Monkey and is clearly my favorite in town. The most spacious place I found in Pushkar. Their walls are done in funky paintings of Michael Jackson, Pink Floyd. Apart from the regular, all-day menu, they have a scrumptious breakfast menu that probably sets them apart. Fresh fruits, a steaming cup of coffee, muesli, pancake or sandwiches, they make it all and they do it well.''Catmosphere in\xa0Chiang Mai, Thailand''Guilherme\xa0at''Slow Spirit''Why is it the best?''We went to Catsmophere just three days after we arrived in Chiang Mai, you can find it just outside the Nimman area, a two-minute walk from the junction between Canal Road and Huaykaew Road. As you can probably guess it’s a Cat Cafe and a great one! The futuristic décor coupled with the super fluffy felines jumping up and down make you want to go back every week. They serve hot and iced coffees, brownies and burgers. Just don’t let the cats eat it!''Singer Cafe in Krakow, Poland''Why is it the best?''We visited the Singer Cafe, located in the Kazimierz district of Krakow, Poland. Each table at the cafe has an old Singer sewing machine on top, and the whole place is heated with one massive fireplace. This place is a cafe by day, and popular bar by night. The Singer Cafe is one of the best Cafes around the world, perfect for those cold winter nights in Europe.''Read More:''{''Visit the Best City in Poland This Winter}''Memento in Sofia, Bulgaria''Geri at''When Woman Travels'':''Why is it the best?''Everyone in Sofia knows or has heard of “Memento”. There are three reasons for that. The first and very important is that in this coffee house you always get one of the best espressos and cappuccinos in the city. The second reason is that with its contemporary interior (that has absolute club vibe even during the day) and its smiling young staff the place is cozy and inviting every time you visit it. The third reason is its location. There are four Memento coffee houses in Sofia and they are all located at busy and easy to find places. The photos are from probably the best of all – Memento NDK. It is my favorite. It’s easy to find, facing the metro station ‘NDK’, and is at few minutes walk from the city’s heart – the pedestrian Vitosha Boulevard. Memento is not a quirky place but you are always sure to get the best service and coffee. Put it in your Sofia bucket list!''Read More''{''Balkan Travel Tips To Know Before You Go''}''Extraordinary Desserts in San Diego, California''Maria at''Maria Abroad''Why is it the best?''Extraordinary Desserts in San Diego is truly extraordinary. I friend of mine from Berlin told me about this place before I moved to San Diego and by chance, I rented an apartment less than 2 blocks away. Needless to say, I spent many afternoons and evenings there, indulging in their amazing treats. Decadent desserts are decorated with orchids and gold flakes, every spoonful not just pretty, but also delectable. The dark and rich chocolate ganache paired with the bursting flavors of fresh berries, light and flaky pastries dusted with powdered sugar. Every time I am back in San Diego, I have to go at least once.''Honorable Mentions:''Brew Lab – Istanbul, Turkey''Why is it the best?''Although there are many cafes to choose from Istanbul, you cannot miss Brew Lab. Located in Beyoglu, this is a specialty coffee shop established in third wave coffee. Besides featuring alternative methods of coffee preparation, the ambiance of this massive cafe is hip and modern. \xa0We found some of the best WiFi in Istanbul here, as well as some of the best conversations!''Gusto Blynine in Vilnius, Lithuania''Why is it the best?''This cafe may cater to all the childlike imaginations inside us but don’t be fooled, the coffee is incredible! In the heart of Vilnius, you can find this small two story cafe that specializes in crepes and pancakes. \xa0Look around and you will see giraffes floating in balloons from the ceiling, and zebra patterned chairs in abundance. It’s the perfect place to spend an afternoon reading a book and watching the world go about outside.''Read More''{Free AND Fun Things to Do in Vilnius}''Read Next:''A Guide to Coffee in Italy''The Five Best New York Coffee Shops''Best Coffee Shops in Belgrade: From Coffee Dream Beograd''Travel Bloggers Reveal the 20 Best Cafes Around The World''was last modified:''November 17th, 2017''by''Natasha''A Guide to Coffee in Italy''Ordering coffee in''Italy''at an Italian espresso bar can be daunting even though we all now know the words Barista, atteratte Machiatto, Grande, Espresso, Americano, and Cappuccino thanks to one coffee chain. This guide to coffee in Italy is here to quell your fears. In case it isn’t common knowledge those words are Italian, and said chain is supposedly originated from the common Italian espresso bar. Now, Starbucks and Italian bars are two entirely different operations. Try ordering a caramel Frappuccino and watch the look of degust that wipes across your barista’s face. So, vastly different that the brand that is everywhere isn’t in Italy because of fear that the Italian coffee goers will turn their nose up at it.''As with all things Italian'', an unwritten list of laws must be adhered to when visiting espresso bars. \xa0As with many westerners your first visit to a busy bar can be daunting so let’s break down the rules.''Stand Up''Coffee is made to be drank standing up. This is not a hard rule, but ordering an espresso and sitting down with it will certainly get some stares.''“Un café”''The most common words in Italian bar culture. Meaning one espresso. This is what Italians will be ordering 90% of the time, and how they will be ordering it. Yes, you can add sugar. No, you cannot sit down.\xa0If required you can order a “doppio,” a double espresso.''Pay beforehand''At many busy Italian espresso bars you are expected to pay the cashier beforehand. You will receive your ticket and you can then give your tickets to busy baristas at the counter who will promptly serve you.''Good to go''Italian coffee doesn’t come in large quantities and is served just hot enough for immediate consumption. There is no sipping on your coffee for hours here. It is made to be enjoyed but in quick fashion.''Forget about to go''You’re first question would probably pertain to work, but there is always time for a coffee with the Italians.''Cappuccinos in the morning''Cappuccinos because of the milk are considered a morning only thing. It is meant to be had as a breakfast drink and is much too heavy to be had any later in the day. Personally, I don’t give a damn. Cappuccinos are just too good to have to be limited to only mornings, call me a tourist.''The classic cappuccino.''You don’t mess with coffee''Please do not ask for a caramel shot, vanilla, chocolate, or some other sugar-free monstrosity. You may ask for some cocoa on top of your cappuccino, and that is all.''E-S-PRESSO''This one probably pertains to American’s mostly, but I’ve heard it many, many, many times pronounced as e-X-presso. It is spelled with an “s,” pronounce it as such.''Latte Means Milk''If you order a latte expect to get a glass of warm milk, which is what latte means in Italian. You can ask for a “Latte Macchiato,” which is typically a large glass of milk with one shot of espresso. If you want the closest thing to your average Starbucks latte ask for a “Latte Macchiato Scuro” (A dark one), comes with two shots of espresso.''What does it cost?''Item''Price''Caffe''€0.8''Caffe Macchiato''€0.8''Capuccino''€1.3''Latte Macchiatto''€1.3''Caffe Fredo''€1\x05\x05''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Italy''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Accommodation in\xa0Italy:''We like to use''Hotelscombined''to compare various booking engines and make sure we are getting the best possible deal. To feel more at home in Italy we use Airbnb.''Here is a coupon for your first stay!''Best Hotels in Italy:''We’ve got the most drool-worthy list of the best hotels in Italy.''Check it out here''!''Train Travel:''The best way to travel around Europe in our opinion is by train. You can buy a Eurail Pass check timetables, and purchase individual tickets on''Rail Europe''.''Flights to\xa0Italy:''Compare airlines, dates and prices all in one place with Skyscanner''.''Car Rental in\xa0Italy:''Auto Europe''is a car rental booking service that compares all the major brands like Hertz, Avis, Alamo, and Europcar.''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''. We ALWAYS travel with travel insurance. Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads offers incredible flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Italy fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''$19.50''Looking for more awesome tips? We suggest picking up Rick Steves’ book on Italy. Rick Steves is pretty much one of our idols and has been leading people through Europe for decades now.''Check The Price Here!''A Guide to Coffee in Italy''was last modified:''July 27th, 2017''by''Cameron''We aren’t perfect, and are bound to make some mistakes, big or small while traveling. The most important thing is that you learn from those mistakes and know how to avoid the same situation again. \xa0No matter how pretty some of our''Instagram photos''may look or how seamless our travels may seem, let it be known that there have been many mistakes made along the way. \xa0We research to avoid mistakes and hassles as much as possible, but sometimes the information isn’t there, we become careless, or we were dumb. \xa0Here are some of our top travel mistakes and what you can learn from them.''Our Top Travel Mistakes and What You Can Learn from Them''Not having any global currency''We learned this the hard way on an overnight train from Budapest to Bucharest. We had been''traveling with the Eurail pass''for three months in Europe. This means for most places you can just walk on the train sit in second class, and show the conductor your pass when he checks tickets. Except''some''trains require you to pay a reservation fee in addition to the pass. We had been in a rush and did not check to see if this was one of those trains. \xa0At about 2 a.m. the conductors finally came around and asked for our tickets. So we flashed our smiles and our Eurail passes, no Bueno. \xa0It was a''€''10 each,''cash only.''We had been traveling Hungary and Czech Republic and had no euro, no USD, basically no cash on us. So while getting yelled at in German/Hungarian, we were kicked off the train in the middle of nowhere Hungary at 2 a.m.''This one may have been our dumbest mistake yet. Always carry some backup cash on you! It doesn’t have to be a ton, but at least some to get you out of trouble if you are in it. \xa0It’s best to carry a global currency like''€, $, or £''..no one is going to accept your Mexican pesos unless you’re in Mexico.''Not giving somewhere a real chance''We arrived in Riga, Latvia with very few expectations although we had always wanted to travel the Baltics. After only FOUR days in the country, we concluded that people weren’t welcoming, and there wasn’t a whole lot of exciting stuff for us to see. We booked the next bus out of there and made our way south in hopes that Lithuania would be better.''Four days and we decided that we hated Riga? Looking back now, this was a huge mistake, we didn’t even give the city a fair chance! Could we really make a fair assumption on a place after spending half a week there? I have met many people who had a great time in Latvia, and sadly, we really can’t comment. From then on out we have tried to get to know a city a little better before we made assumptions about a place before escaping.''Not formulating your own opinions''A few years back on my''first solo trip to Italy,''I was told not to go to Naples. \xa0It was dangerous for women, dirty, and there was graffiti everywhere – because of this, I skipped Naples and headed south to Sicily. \xa0A few years later''I went back to Italy''and decided that I was most definitely going to the city known as the birthplace of pizza. \xa0Well, guess what? Naples was a little dirtier than Northern “pristine” Italy and it did have graffitied walls; however, the locals were friendly and I felt incredibly safe walking the streets late at night. \xa0Surprisingly, Naples ended up being one of my most favorite cities in Italy – and yes the pizza is incredible.''Never let the online world or other travelers sway your travel decisions. I’m not saying to go travel alone to Syria right now to defy the media (because that probably isn’t safe). But one woman’s trash is another woman’s treasure, so if you want to go somewhere and do something then just do it!''The Food in Naples is the Bomb Diggity''Booking too long in one place''Sometimes you get somewhere and it is totally not what you expected but you are locked in because you booked a ton of time in advance. This happened to us recently in''Ayia Napa, Cyprus''. \xa0We knew we wanted to stay by some of the''best beaches in Cyprus''for a week but for some ungodly reason, we booked 7 days at one single place. \xa0Upon arrival the accommodation was…uh… less than desirable for the price range. \xa0There was a roach infestation and a slew of other problems, it wasn’t a jail cell and the place wasn’t terrible for a one night stay, but a whole week was going to be rough.''We tried to leave after one day, but the establishment refused to refund us for the next 6, so we bit our tongues and stayed the whole 7 days.''We started booking only 2-night stays at all places after this episode. That way you can extend the booking if you love it, or leave if you hate it. Unless you’re staying at a some 5-star resort, I recommend starting off like this so you don’t get trapped into a shitty place like we did.''Being too lazy to go see that mountain/monument/park/whatever''While visiting Turkey back in 2013, we stayed in the coastal city of Izmir. Izmir is only one hour away from the ancient city of Ephesus. But for some reason (laziness) we didn’t go to the UNESCO World Heritage site when we were there. \xa0Two years later and we were still kicking ourselves for being''so close'', but not making it there.''We didn’t make it to Ephesus because we wanted to sleep in. It’s embarrassing really, but, thankfully,''we had a chance to return in 2015 and make up for lost time''s. \xa0When you are presented with an opportunity to see something incredible. Do it.''As we continue to travel more, I have no doubt that this list will continue to grow. Tell me some of your travel mistakes! What have you learned along the road?''Our Top Travel Mistakes and What You Can Learn From Them''was last modified:''August 25th, 2017''by''Natasha''Italy has long been on the top of many travelers list for decades. The country is majestically beautiful, has world-class food, and a spoken language that will instantly make you drool and fall in love. I have had the pleasure of spending time there on a few different occasions, and I found that there are many things to know before going to Italy.''Things to Know Before Going To Italy''Italians Take Riposo Very Seriously''Riposo is Italy’s midday siesta. From 1-4 p.m. you can expect to find many shops and restaurants closed. Italians like to take time in the afternoon to go home, have lunch, and relax with family before heading back out to do business again. Life before work, love it!''Plan to Eat Late''That being said, most restaurants won’t open until 7 or later. Plan your meals accordingly to avoid any hangry moods.''There is No Tipping, but…''Many restaurants have a cover charge called “coperto”, so unless specified as “no service charge” you may as well get used to having to pay a fee when you sit down at a restaurant. This can be anywhere from 1 to 5 Euro, and no it is not just because you are a tourist. Italians and foreigners alike have to pay the charge to sit at the table.\xa0Read more of our''tips on tipping in restaurants throughout Europe''.''The view near our Airbnb in Perugia.''Here’s $40 for you to get your own apartment rental!''Your Salad Has a New Best Friend''And her name is Olive Oil! You will not find anything but olive oil and maybe some vinegar for your salad. Not in a cafe, upscale restaurant, or a grocery store – trust me, it’s not there. Buh bye ranch dressing – hellllooo bikini season! Italy, my waistline is thanking you.''€1.30 is the Price for a Cappuccino. Period.''Cappuccinos and espressos are everywhere in Italy'', and it’s WONDERFUL. Our day in Italy wasn’t complete unless we had about three cups of foamy goodness. Italy isn’t known to be the cheapest country, but espressos are meant for everyone and are therefore very affordable. We usually paid €1.30 for a Cappuccino and €.90 for espresso. Anything more than €1.50 and you are getting the straight up tourist fare.''The WiFi is…Developing''For a developed nation, accessible WiFi in Italy is seriously lacking. In most of the Airbnb’s, hostels, and hotels we stayed at the WiFi was less than adequate. This surprised us, and then we found out that more than 30% of Italians have never been online. So 1999.''The New Cafe Culture is Non-Existent''There are no Starbucks in Italy. Not totally surprising, and actually very endearing. This doesn’t bother me as I have come to hate that seductive green Siren, and tend to only use their facilities for a free bathroom in Europe. However, we didn’t find any cafes in Italy where we could just go sit and work on our computer. A simple concept that has become so popular back home is virtually non-existent in Italy. Perhaps this correlates to the developing WiFi. Hmm.''“Ciao,” “Grazie,” and “Non-Capisco” will go a long way''The Italians are extremely friendly and polite people, but I still found that learning a few words in their language will get you a long way. It’s easy too! “Ciao” can be used for hello and goodbye, “Grazie,” is used everywhere to give thanks, and when a local mistakenly make you out for an Italian just simply say “Non-Capisco” (I don’t understand).''Or just pick up an Italian language book!''Read my full list of''what to bring to Italy here.''Always validate your train and bus tickets''Just buying your tickets at the bus or train station is not enough. You must validate them at the little machines nearby to prove that you are using the ticket right then and there. Not doing so will result in a hefty fine and an unhappy inspector.''All Roads Lead to Rome''We found the best way to get to many Italian cities, was\xa0through Rome. Termini station in Rome is a major transport hub linking the rest of Italy. This became kind of a pain, as a lot of time we had no desire to pass back through the city just to head somewhere else. However most trips to Italy will likely start in Rome, I would suggest taking at least three days to explore the city. It’s one of the oldest in the world and one I keep finding myself back in. To make the most out of your time you can get a''“Skip the Line” three-hour tour''into the Vatican,\xa0Sistine Chapel & St. Peter’s.''Book your tour here!''Get to Naples for the Best Pizza Pie''Hands down the best (and cheapest) pizzas are in Naples. It’s honestly worth making a trip to the city just for the''€3.50 Margarita Pizzas''. It may have ruined all future pizza for me, but bringing that perfect pizza to my lips just once was worth it.''Pickpocketers, Schmishmocketers''For a country that has two cities listed as the top 10 pickpocketing places in the world, we never once felt like our possessions were in danger. Maybe it’s the''New York mentality''in us, but we found Italy to be incredibly safe. Just use some common sense and try not to look like a complete tourist and there is nothing to worry about.''Throw Everything You Know About Italian Food Out the Window''Spaghetti bolognese is not everywhere and cannolis are only popular in Sicily, also you will never ever see pepperoni. Instead, you will find the real Italian staples like bruschetta al pomodoro, delicious prosciutto layering a pizza, and spaghetti alla carbonara instead of fettucini alfredo. And the cheese! Oh, don’t even get me started on the cheese in Italy. It’s delicious and fresh and nothing in your average supermarkets will ever compare. I worked at the American restaurant food chain''Carrabba’s Italian Grill''for 4 years. Trust me, the “Italian” food we think we know doesn’t even compare.''Choose Your Gelato Wisely''There is good gelato and crap gelato – even in Italy. Read your reviews online, and be sure to test out a few different shops. When you find the best, you will know. Our favorite gelato in Italy was hands down in Florence and was called''Gelateria Della Passera.''Italy is a Vast and Different Country (so, bring a camera)''Italy is so completely different from north to south. There are 20 different regions in Italy, and each specializes in different wines, foods, and traditions. It’s amazing how one country can be the same but also so different. Rome and Florence are great cities, but there is much more to explore the boot-shaped country! I’ve spent a total of five months in Italy and there is still''so much''left I have to see. If it’s your first time to Italy and you have a few weeks,''here is a great suggested itinerary.''I never leave my Airbnb, hotel, or guesthouse without a camera so that I can collect all the memories of the beautiful country. I am currently traveling with a''Fujifilm X-T10''and''love''it because for its small, stylish, and lightweight frame – perfect for Italy! You can see some of our''favorite travel cameras here.''Plan Your Trip to\xa0Italy''We rely on a few trusted websites that help save us money and time when booking hotels, flights, and car rentals. Check out some of\xa0our preferred partners below:''Wondering what to bring to Europe?''Check out our ultimate''Europe packing list.''Accommodation in\xa0Italy:''Find the best hotel deal at Hotels.com''or to feel more at home in Italy try Airbnb. We stayed at a number of apartments throughout Italy. Read more about''choosing a good Airbnb here''.''Here is a coupon for your first stay with Airbnb!''Best Hotels in Italy:''We’ve got the most drool-worthy list of the best hotels in Italy.''Check it out here''!''Travel Insurance:''We never travel without''travel\xa0insurance\xa0with World Nomads''.\xa0 Natasha is a bit of a worry wart and would rather stay safe than sorry. World Nomads is ideal for flexible and great plans!''Water:''We found the water in Italy fine to drink, if you want extra assurance then we love traveling with our''Lifestraw Go Waterbottle''Adapter:''Remember that Italy uses both the\xa0\xa0“''Type L ” Italian adapter''and the''Europlug''. Many adapters are interchangeable, so make sure you find a good one like the''one I have''to keep you charged.''Read Next:''The Best Travel Backpacks For Europe & Abroad''15 Iceland Honeymoon Ideas That Make for a Memorable Experience''Travel Banking: These Mistakes Could Be Costing You Money!''A Two Week Italy Itinerary • Don’t Miss the Best Cities in Italy''Is Venice Worth Visiting? An Unexpected Experience in Italy''11 Fantastic Things to do in Luxembourg''30 Italy Travel Tips to Know Before You Go''April 27, 2018''10 Of The Best Beaches in Europe You Need Check Out''March 20, 2018''Val di Sole & Madonna Di Campiglio • The Best Hidden Ski Destinations in Europe''February 2, 2018''15 Things to Know Before Going To Italy''was last modified:''April 11th, 2018''by''Natasha''Back in 2013, we were traveling Turkey for the first time. \xa0It was our first experience in a predominately Muslim country, and our first encounter with “Eurasia.” \xa0After visiting Istanbul, we decided to take the night bus down to Izmir to celebrate the end of Ramadan with the Turks. We only had one full day before we were moving onward to Greece. Our plan was to wake up early and visit the ancient archeological city of Ephesus. \xa0The Ancient City of Ephesus is a UNESCO World Heritage site, a top destination in Turkey, and is culturally significant to the beginnings of Christianity (The Virgin Mary is said to have spent her remaining years here).''We knew it would be a highlight of our European tour, but when the alarm bells rang at 8 a.m. that morning we didn’t wake up. \xa0Yes – we were too lazy to wake up for Ephesus, and instead spent the morning relaxing in bed.''The day went about as normal, we ate lunch and watched sunbathers on the beach before hopping on the ferry to the Greek island of Chios. Our mistake didn’t really hit us until weeks later, which then turned to months, and two years later we were still talking about how we didn’t make it to Ephesus despite being one hour away!''What if we never make it back to Turkey? What if we get sucked into careers and never travel again?''What if? What if? What if?''Well, in December 2015 we did make it back to Turkey and made special plans to visit Ephesus.''And guess what!? We loved it! We stayed in the city of Selcuk and were able to walk right up to the ancient city itself. Not only did we just visit Turkey for the second time, but we were fortunate enough to spend 5 whole weeks exploring the country. \xa0Turkey was never one of those countries that was\xa0never high on my destination list, but now I can honestly say after visiting places like Bodrum,''Pamukkale'', and''Cappadocia''that Turkey is one of my favorite countries. Now to my point…it’s NEVER too late to see what you want to see.''Barely Any crowds at Ephesus in December''So, get out there! It’s never too late.''It’s best not to live life with regrets. But sometimes there is that place you wish you went, that food you wish you could have tried when you had the chance, sometimes you just don’t want to be stuck thinking “what if?” It’s the new year, 2016 may just be your time to push yourself past your own limits, spend some money on experiences you’ve always wanted to have instead of things, and live the life you want to live.''What’s left of the Temple of Artemis, one of the Seven Wonders of the World''Would you like to visit the ancient city of Ephesus too?''Library of Celsus''Basics:''What'': Ephesus was once the trading center of the world and played a huge role in the beginnings of Christianity''Where:''Ephesus is located in Selcuk. Selcuk is a modern day city and makes a lovely place to spend a few days. There are many other historical sites in Selcuk such as the remains of the Temple of Artemis and St. John Basilica.''Cost'': 40 Turkish Lira''Length:''We would recommend at least a half day to visit Ephesus.''How:''We stayed right in the nearby town of Selcuk at the lovely''Anz Guesthouse''for 3 nights, and were sufficiently able to see Ephesus, all its surroundings, and take a day trip to the picturesque town of Sirince. If coming from Izmir, go to the public bus station (outside the actual city of Izmir) and take an hour long bus to Selcuk. Once in Selcuk, you can either walk (about 30 minutes) or take a minibus to the site.''Throughout our travels, we found it’s never too late to live your dream! What are your plans for the new year?''It’s Never Too Late To Go Somewhere: Revisiting Ephesus''was last modified:''September 3rd, 2016''by''Natasha'